TABLE OF CONTENTS

1

Before driving

Adjusting and operating features such as door locks,
mirrors, and steering column.

2

When driving

Driving, stopping and safe-driving information.

3

Interior features

Air conditioning and audio systems, as well as other interior features for a comfortable driving experience.

4

Maintenance
and care

Cleaning and protecting your vehicle, performing do-ityourself maintenance, and maintenance information.

5

When trouble
arises

What to do if the vehicle needs to be towed, gets a flat
tire, or is involved in an accident.

6

Vehicle
specifications

Detailed vehicle information.

7

For owners

Reporting safety defects for US owners, and seat belt
and SRS airbag instructions for Canadian owners

Index

Alphabetical listing of information contained in this
manual.

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1

Index

Before driving

1-6. Theft deterrent system
Engine immobilizer
system ................................ 79
Alarm .................................... 82
Theft prevention labels
(U.S.A.)............................... 86

1-1. Key information
Keys ..................................... 22
1-2. Opening, closing and
locking the doors and
trunk

1-7. Safety information
Correct driving posture ......... 87
SRS airbag
(Supplemental Restraint
System airbag) ................... 89
Front passenger occupant
classification system......... 128
Child restraint systems ....... 137
Installing child restraints ..... 141

Smart key system................. 25
Wireless remote control ....... 38
Doors.................................... 43
Trunk .................................... 46
1-3. Adjustable components
(seats, mirrors,
steering wheel)
Front seats ........................... 53
Rear seats............................ 56
Head restraints ..................... 58
Seat belts ............................. 60
Steering wheel ..................... 67
Anti-glare inside rear
view mirror.......................... 68
Outside rear view mirrors ..... 69
1-4. Opening and closing
the windows
Power windows .................... 72
1-5. Refueling
Opening the fuel tank cap .... 75

2

2

When driving

2-1. Driving procedures
Driving the vehicle .............. 152
Engine (ignition) switch
(vehicles with a smart
key system) ...................... 166
Engine (ignition) switch
(vehicles without a
smart key system) ............ 175
Automatic transmission ...... 178
Manual Transmission ......... 185
Turn signal lever ................. 188
Parking brake ..................... 189
Horn.................................... 190

2-2. Instrument cluster
Gauges and meters ............ 191
Indicators and warning
lights ................................. 194
Multi-information display
(monochrome display) ...... 200
Multi-information display
(color display) ................... 207
2-3. Operating the lights
and windshield wipers
Headlight switch.................. 222
Fog light switch ................... 228
Windshield wipers and
washer .............................. 229
2-4. Using other driving
systems
Cruise control...................... 232
Rear view monitor
system .............................. 237
Driving assist systems ........ 245
Hill-start assist control......... 252
2-5. Driving information
Cargo and luggage ............. 256
Vehicle load limits ............... 260
Winter driving tips ............... 261
Trailer towing ...................... 265
Dinghy towing ..................... 266

3

Interior features

3-1. Using the air conditioning
system and defogger

1

Manual air conditioning
system.............................. 268
Automatic air conditioning
system.............................. 275
Rear window and outside
rear view mirror
defoggers ......................... 284

2

3

3-2. Using the audio system
Using the AUX/USB port .... 286
Steering wheel audio
switches ........................... 287
Using the microphone ........ 288

4

3-3. Using the interior lights
Interior lights list ................. 289
• Interior light ...................... 290

5

3-4. Using the storage
features
List of storage features....... 291
• Glove box ......................... 292
• Bottle holders ................... 293
• Cup holders/
console tray...................... 294

6

7

3

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Index

3-5. Other interior features
Sun visors .......................... 296
Vanity mirrors ..................... 297
Clock .................................. 298
Power outlets ..................... 299
Seat heaters....................... 301
Floor mat ............................ 303

4

4-3. Do-it-yourself
maintenance
Do-it-yourself service
precautions ....................... 324
Hood ................................... 327
Positioning a floor jack........ 329
Engine compartment .......... 331
Tires.................................... 345
Tire inflation pressure ......... 353
Wheels................................ 357
Air conditioning filter ........... 360
Wireless remote control/
electronic key battery ....... 363
Checking and replacing
fuses ................................. 367
Light bulbs .......................... 375

Maintenance and care

4-1. Maintenance and care
Cleaning and protecting
the vehicle exterior ........... 308
Cleaning and protecting
the vehicle interior ............ 312
Cleaning and protecting
the Alcantara® area.......... 316

5

When trouble arises

4-2. Maintenance
Maintenance
requirements .................... 318
General maintenance ......... 320
Emission inspection and
maintenance (I/M)
programs .......................... 323

4

5-1. Essential information
Emergency flashers............ 384
If your vehicle needs to
be towed ........................... 385
If you think something
is wrong ............................ 393
Fuel pump shut off
system .............................. 394

5-2. Steps to take in an
emergency
If a warning light turns on
or a warning buzzer
sounds... ........................... 395
If a warning message is
displayed........................... 407
If you have a flat tire............ 424
If the engine will not start .... 435
If the shift lever cannot be
shifted from P.................... 438
If you lose your keys ........... 439
If the electronic key does
not operate properly.......... 440
If the battery is
discharged ........................ 444
If your vehicle overheats ..... 449
If the vehicle becomes
stuck ................................. 452
If your vehicle has to be
stopped in an
emergency ........................ 454

6

Vehicle specifications

6-1. Specifications
Maintenance data
(fuel, oil level, etc.) ........... 458
Fuel information.................. 470
Tire information .................. 474

1

2

6-2. Customization
Customizable features........ 487

7

3

For owners
Reporting safety defects
for U.S. owners ................ 492
Seat belt instructions
for Canadian owners
(in French)........................ 493
SRS airbag instructions
for Canadian owners
(in French)........................ 496

Index

4

5

6

Abbreviation list........................ 520
Alphabetical index .................... 521
What to do if... .......................... 529

5

7

Pictorial index

Exterior

Daytime running lights/parking
lights P. 222
Headlights P. 222
Windshield wipers P. 229

Outside rear view mirrors

P. 69

Hood P. 327

Front side marker
lights P. 222

Front fog lights  P. 228

Front turn signal lights P. 188

6

Trunk

P. 46

Rear window defogger P. 284
Tail lights P. 222
Rear side marker lights P. 222
Fuel filler door

P. 75

Doors

P. 43

Turn signal lights P. 188

License plate lights P. 222
Rear view camera P. 237

Tires
●Rotation
●Replacement
●Inflation pressure
●Information

P. 345
P. 425
P. 353
P. 474

: If equipped
7

Pictorial index

Head restraints
Seat belts

Interior

P. 58

P. 60

Child restraint
anchor brackets

SRS curtain shield
airbags P. 89

P. 141

SRS front passenger
airbag P. 89

Power outlet

Cup holders P. 294
Console tray P. 294
SRS side airbags

P. 299
P. 89

Front seats

P. 53

Glove box P. 292

8

A

Sun visors P. 296
Interior light P. 290
Microphone P. 288

Rear view monitor P. 237

Vanity mirrors P. 297

Anti-glare inside rear view mirror

B

P. 68

Inside door lock buttons

P. 44

Outside rear view mirror switch
P. 69

Door lock switch

P. 43

Power window switches
Window lock switch

P. 72

P. 72

9

Pictorial index

Interior

C
Shift lever P. 178, 185
Shift lock override button  P. 439

Parking brake lever P. 189

Seat heater switches  P. 301

Power outlet P. 299
“TRACK” switch P. 247
Driving pattern selector switch  P. 180

VSC/TRAC off switch P. 246

: If equipped
10

Pictorial index

Instrument panel

Gauges and meters P. 191
Multi-information display P. 200, 207

Windshield wiper and washer switch P. 229
Headlight switch P. 222
Turn signal lever P. 188
Fog light switch  P. 228

Clock P. 298
Emergency flasher
switch P. 384

Floor mat P. 303
Tilt and telescopic steering
lock release lever P. 67
Fuel filler door opener
Hood lock release lever P. 327

P. 75

AUX port P. 286
USB port P. 286

Engine (ignition) switch (vehicles with a
smart key system) P. 166

: If equipped
11

Pictorial index

Instrument panel

A
Vehicles with a manual air conditioning system
Air conditioning
system P. 268

Rear window and outside rear view mirror defoggers
switch /rear window defogger switch  P. 284

Vehicles with an automatic air conditioning system
Air conditioning
system P. 275

12

Rear window and outside rear view mirror defoggers
switch /rear window defogger switch  P. 284

B

Engine (ignition) switch (vehicles
without a smart key system) P. 175

Audio remote control switches

Meter control switches 

P. 287

P. 208

Paddle shift switches  P. 181, 183

Cruise control switch P. 232
Horn P. 190
SRS driver airbag

P. 89

: If equipped
13

Pictorial index

Instrument panel

C

Instrument panel light control dial P. 192

Trunk opener

14

P. 46

For your information
Main Owner’s Manual
Please note that this manual applies to all models and explains all equipment, including options. Therefore, you may find some explanations for
equipment not installed on your vehicle.
All specifications provided in this manual are current at the time of printing.
However, because of the Toyota policy of continual product improvement, we
reserve the right to make changes at any time without notice.
Depending on specifications, the vehicle shown in the illustration may differ
from your vehicle in terms of color and equipment.

Noise from under vehicle after turning off the engine
Approximately five to ten hours after the engine is turned off, you may hear
sound coming from under the vehicle for several minutes. This is the sound
of a fuel evaporation leakage check and, it does not indicate a malfunction.

Accessories, spare parts and modification of your Toyota
A wide variety of non-genuine spare parts and accessories for Toyota vehicles are currently available in the market. You should know that Toyota does
not warrant these products and is not responsible for their performance,
repair, or replacement, or for any damage they may cause to, or adverse
effect they may have on, your Toyota vehicle.
This vehicle should not be modified with non-genuine Toyota products. Modification with non-genuine Toyota products could affect its performance,
safety or durability, and may even violate governmental regulations. In addition, damage or performance problems resulting from the modification may
not be covered under warranty.

15

Installation of a mobile two-way radio system
The installation of a mobile two-way radio system in your vehicle could affect
electronic systems such as:
● Multiport fuel injection system/sequential multiport fuel injection system
● Cruise control system
● Anti-lock brake system
● SRS airbag system
● Seat belt pretensioner system
Be sure to check with your Toyota dealer for precautionary measures or special instructions regarding installation of a mobile two-way radio system.

16

Vehicle data recordings
Your Toyota is equipped with several sophisticated computers that will record
certain data, such as:
• Accelerator status
• Brake status
• Vehicle speed
The recorded data varies according to the vehicle grade level and options
with which it is equipped. These computers do not record conversations or
sounds, and only record images outside of the vehicle in certain situations.
● Data Transmission
Your vehicle may transmit the data recorded in these computers to Toyota
without notification to you.
● Data usage
Toyota may use the data recorded in these computers to diagnose malfunctions, conduct research and development, and improve quality.
Toyota will not disclose the recorded data to a third party except:
• With the consent of the vehicle owner or with the consent of the lessee if
the vehicle is leased
• In response to an official request by the police, a court of law or a government agency
• For use by Toyota in a lawsuit
• For research purposes where the data is not tied to a specific vehicle or
vehicle owner
● To learn more about the vehicle data collected, used and shared by
Toyota, please visit www.toyota.com/privacyvts/.

17

Event data recorder
This vehicle is equipped with an event data recorder (EDR). The main purpose of an EDR is to record, in certain crash or near crash-like situations,
such as an air bag deployment or hitting a road obstacle, data that will assist
in understanding how a vehicle’s systems performed. The EDR is designed
to record data related to vehicle dynamics and safety systems for a short
period of time, typically 30 seconds or less.
The EDR in this vehicle is designed to record such data as:
• How various systems in your vehicle were operating;
• Whether or not the driver and passenger safety belts were buckled/fastened;
• How far (if at all) the driver was depressing the accelerator and/or brake
pedal; and,
• How fast the vehicle was traveling.
These data can help provide a better understanding of the circumstances in
which crashes and injuries occur.
NOTE: EDR data are recorded by your vehicle only if a non-trivial crash situation occurs; no data are recorded by the EDR under normal driving conditions and no personal data (e.g., name, gender, age, and crash location) are
recorded. However, other parties, such as law enforcement, could combine
the EDR data with the type of personally identifying data routinely acquired
during a crash investigation.
To read data recorded by an EDR, special equipment is required, and access
to the vehicle or the EDR is needed. In addition to the vehicle manufacturer,
other parties, such as law enforcement, that have the special equipment, can
read the information if they have access to the vehicle or the EDR.
● Disclosure of the EDR data
Toyota will not disclose the data recorded in an EDR to a third party except
when:
• An agreement from the vehicle’s owner (or the lessee for a leased vehicle)
is obtained
• In response to an official request by the police, a court of law or a government agency
• For use by Toyota in a lawsuit
However, if necessary, Toyota may:
• Use the data for research on vehicle safety performance
• Disclose the data to a third party for research purposes without disclosing
information about the specific vehicle or vehicle owner
18

Scrapping of your Toyota
The SRS airbag and seat belt pretensioner devices in your Toyota contain
explosive chemicals. If the vehicle is scrapped with the airbags and seat belt
pretensioners left as they are, this may cause an accident such as fire. Be
sure to have the systems of the SRS airbag and seat belt pretensioner
removed and disposed of by a qualified service shop or by your Toyota
dealer before you scrap your vehicle.

Perchlorate Material
Special handling may apply, See www.dtsc.ca.gov/hazardouswaste/perchlorate.
Your vehicle has components that may contain perchlorate. These
components may include airbag, seat belt pretensioners, and wireless
remote control batteries.

WARNING
■ General precautions while driving
Driving under the influence: Never drive your vehicle when under the influence of alcohol or drugs that have impaired your ability to operate your vehicle. Alcohol and certain drugs delay reaction time, impair judgment and
reduce coordination, which could lead to an accident that could result in
death or serious injury.
Defensive driving: Always drive defensively. Anticipate mistakes that other
drivers or pedestrians might make and be ready to avoid accidents.
Driver distraction: Always give your full attention to driving. Anything that distracts the driver, such as adjusting controls, talking on a cellular phone or
reading can result in a collision with resulting death or serious injury to you,
your occupants or others.
■ General precaution regarding children’s safety
Never leave children unattended in the vehicle, and never allow children to
have or use the key.
Children may be able to start the vehicle or shift the vehicle into neutral.
There is also a danger that children may injure themselves by playing with
the windows or other features of the vehicle. In addition, heat build-up or
extremely cold temperatures inside the vehicle can be fatal to children.

19

Symbols used throughout this manual
Cautions & Notices
WARNING
This is a warning against something which, if ignored, may cause death or
serious injury to people. You are informed about what you must or must not do
in order to reduce the risk of death or serious injury to yourself and others.

NOTICE
This is a warning against something which, if ignored, may cause damage to
the vehicle or its equipment. You are informed about what you must or must
not do in order to avoid or reduce the risk of damage to your Toyota and its
equipment.

Symbols used in illustrations
Safety symbol
The symbol of a circle with a slash through it means “Do not”, “Do
not do this”, or “Do not let this happen.”

Arrows indicating operations
Indicates the action (pushing, turning,
etc.) used to operate switches and
other devices.
Indicates the outcome of an operation
(e.g. a lid opens).

20

Before driving

1-1. Key information
Keys ................................... 22

1
1-4. Opening and closing
the windows
Power windows .................. 72

1-2. Opening, closing and
locking the doors and
trunk
Smart key system .............. 25
Wireless remote control ..... 38
Doors ................................. 43
Trunk.................................. 46
1-3. Adjustable components
(seats, mirrors,
steering wheel)
Front seats ......................... 53
Rear seats.......................... 56
Head restraints................... 58
Seat belts ........................... 60
Steering wheel ................... 67
Anti-glare inside rear
view mirror ....................... 68
Outside rear view
mirrors.............................. 69

1-5. Refueling
Opening the fuel
tank cap ........................... 75
1-6. Theft deterrent system
Engine immobilizer
system ............................. 79
Alarm.................................. 82
Theft prevention labels
(U.S.A.) ............................ 86
1-7. Safety information
Correct driving posture....... 87
SRS airbag
(Supplemental Restraint
System airbag)................. 89
Front passenger occupant
classification system ...... 128
Child restraint systems..... 137
Installing child restraints... 141

21

1-1. Key information

Keys
The following keys are provided with the vehicle.

Vehicles without a smart key system
Master keys
Operating the wireless remote
control function (P. 38)

Valet key
Key number plate

Vehicles with a smart key system
Electronic keys
• Operating the smart key
system (P. 25)
• Operating the wireless
remote control function
(P. 38)

Mechanical keys
Key number plate

22

1-1. Key information

Using the mechanical key (vehicles with a smart key system)
To take out the mechanical key,
slide the release lever and take
the key out.

■ When required to leave the vehicle’s key with a parking attendant
Turn the trunk opener main switch off as circumstances demand. (P. 47)
On vehicles without a smart key system, provide the attendant with the valet
key.
On vehicles with a smart key system, remove the mechanical key for your
own use and provide the attendant with the electronic key only.
■ Key number plate
Keep the plate in a safe place, not in the vehicle. In the event that a key
(without a smart key system) or mechanical key (with a smart key system) is
lost, a new key can be made at your Toyota dealer using the key number
plate. (P. 440)
■ When riding in an aircraft
When bringing a key with wireless remote control function onto an aircraft,
make sure you do not press any buttons on the key while inside the aircraft
cabin. If you are carrying the key in your bag etc., ensure that the buttons
are not likely to be pressed accidentally. Pressing a button may cause the
key to emit radio waves that could interfere with the operation of the aircraft.

23

Before driving

After using the mechanical key,
store it in the electronic key. Carry
the mechanical key together with
the electronic key. If the electronic
key battery is depleted or entry
function does not operate properly, you will need the mechanical
key. (P. 441)

1

1-1. Key information

NOTICE
■ To prevent key damage
Observe the following:
● Do not drop the keys, subject them to strong shocks or bend them.
● Do not expose the keys to high temperatures for a long period of time.
● Do not get the keys wet or wash them in an ultrasonic washer etc.
● Do not attach metallic or magnetic materials to the keys or place the keys
close to such materials.
● Do not disassemble the keys.
● Do not attach a sticker or anything else to the surface of the key.
● Vehicles with a smart key system: Do not place the keys near objects that
produce magnetic fields, such as TVs, audio systems, induction cookers,
or medical electrical equipment, such as low-frequency therapy equipment.
■ Carrying the electronic key on your person (vehicles with a smart key
system)
Carry the electronic key 3.9 in. (10 cm) or more away from electric appliances that are turned on. Radio waves emitted from electric appliances
within 3.9 in. (10 cm) of the electronic key may interfere with the key, causing
the key to not function properly.
■ In case of a smart key system malfunction or other key-related problems (vehicles with a smart key system)
Take your vehicle with all the electronic keys provided with your vehicle to
your Toyota dealer.
■ When a vehicle key is lost
If the key remains lost, the risk of vehicle theft increases significantly. Visit
your Toyota dealer immediately with all remaining keys that were provided
with your vehicle.

24

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Smart key system (vehicles with a smart key system)
The following operations can be performed simply by carrying the
electronic key on your person, for example in your pocket.
(The driver should always carry the electronic key.)
1

Before driving

Electronic key

Electronic key
Electronic key

Unlocks and locks the doors (P. 26)
Unlocks the trunk (P. 27)
Starts the engine (P. 166)

25

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Unlocking and locking the doors
Grip the driver’s door handle to
unlock the door. Grip the passenger’s door handle to unlock all
the doors.
Make sure to touch the sensor on
the back of the handle.
The door cannot be unlocked for
3 seconds after the door is
locked.

Touch the lock sensor (the
indentation on the side of the
door handle) to lock the doors.
Check that the door is securely
locked.

26

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Unlocking the trunk
Press the button to unlock the
trunk.

1

Before driving

Antenna location and effective range
■ Antenna location
Antennas outside the cabin
Antennas inside the cabin
Antenna outside the trunk
Antenna inside the trunk

27

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Effective range (areas within which the electronic key is
detected)
When locking or unlocking
the doors
The system can be operated
when the electronic key is
within about 1.3 - 2.6 ft. (0.4 0.8 m) of either of the outside
door handles. (Only the
doors detecting the key can
be operated.)

When unlocking the trunk
The system can be operated
when the electronic key is
within about 1.3 - 2.6 ft. (0.4 0.8 m) of the trunk release
button.

When starting the engine
or changing “ENGINE
START STOP” switch
modes
The system can be operated
when the electronic key is
inside the vehicle.

28

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Operation signals
A buzzer sounds and the emergency flashers flash to indicate that the doors
have been locked/unlocked. (Locked: once; Unlocked: twice)
1

■ When the door cannot be locked by the lock sensor

Before driving

Use your palm to touch the lock sensor.

■ Door lock buzzer
If an attempt to lock the doors is made when a door is not fully closed, a
buzzer sounds continuously. Fully close the door to stop the buzzer, and lock
the vehicle once more.
■ Alarms and warning indicators
A combination of exterior and interior alarms as well as warning messages
shown on the multi-information display are used to prevent theft of the vehicle and accidents resulting from erroneous operation. Take appropriate measures in response to any warning message on the multi-information display.
(P. 410, 414)
The following table describes circumstances and correction procedures
when only alarms are sounded.

29

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Alarm

Situation

Correction procedure

Exterior alarm
sounds once for
5 seconds

An attempt was made to
lock the vehicle while a
door was open.

Close all of the doors
and lock the doors
again.

Interior alarm
sounds continuously

The “ENGINE START
STOP” switch was turned
to ACCESSORY mode
while the driver’s door was
open (or the driver’s door
was opened while the
“ENGINE START STOP”
switch was in ACCESSORY mode).

Turn the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch
off and close the
driver’s door.

■ Security feature
If a door is not opened within approximately 60 seconds after the vehicle is
unlocked, the security feature automatically locks the vehicle again. (However, depending on the location of the electronic key, the key may be
detected as being in the vehicle. In this case, the vehicle may be unlocked.)
■ Battery-saving function
The battery-saving function will be activated in order to prevent the electronic key battery and the vehicle battery from being discharged while the
vehicle is not in operation for a long time.
● In the following situations, the smart key system may take some time to
unlock the doors.
• The electronic key has been left in an area of approximately 6 ft. (2 m)
of the outside of the vehicle for 10 minutes or longer.
• The smart key system has not been used for 5 days or longer.
● If the smart key system has not been used for 14 days or longer, the
doors cannot be unlocked at any door except the driver’s door.
In this case, take hold of the driver’s door handle, or use the wireless
remote control or the mechanical key, to unlock the doors.

30

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Conditions affecting operation
The smart key system uses weak radio waves. In the following situations,
the communication between the electronic key and the vehicle may be
affected, preventing the smart key system, wireless remote control and
engine immobilizer system from operating properly.
(Way of coping P. 441)
● Near a TV tower, electric power plant, gas station, radio station, large display, airport or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise
● When the electronic key is in contact with, or is covered by the following
metallic objects
• Cards to which aluminum foil is attached
• Cigarette boxes that have aluminum foil inside
• Metallic wallets or bags
• Coins
• Hand warmers made of metal
• Media such as CDs and DVDs
● When other wireless keys (that emit radio waves) are being used nearby
● When carrying the electronic key together with the following devices that
emit radio waves
• A portable radio, cellular phone, cordless phone or other wireless communication device
• Another vehicle's electronic key or a wireless key that emits radio
waves
• Personal computers or personal digital assistants (PDAs)
• Digital audio players
• Portable game systems
● If window tint with a metallic content or metallic objects are attached to
the rear window
● When the electronic key is placed near a battery charger or electronic
devices

31

Before driving

● When the electronic key battery is depleted

1

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Notes for the entry function
● Even when the electronic key is within the effective range (detection
areas), the system may not operate properly in the following cases:
• The electronic key is too close to the window or outside door handle,
near the ground, or in a high place when the doors are locked or
unlocked.
• The electronic key is near the ground or in a high place, or too close to
the rear bumper center when the trunk is unlocked.
• The electronic key is on the instrument panel, rear shelf or floor, in the
door pockets or glove box, auxiliary box when the engine is started or
“ENGINE START STOP” switch modes are changed.
● Do not leave the electronic key on top of the instrument panel or near the
door pockets when exiting the vehicle. Depending on the radio wave
reception conditions, it may be detected by the antenna outside the cabin
and the door will become lockable from the outside, possibly trapping the
electronic key inside the vehicle.
● As long as the electronic key is within the effective range, the doors may
be locked or unlocked by anyone.
● Even if the electronic key is not inside the vehicle, it may be possible to
start the engine if the electronic key is near the window.
● The doors may unlock if a large amount of water splashes on the door
handle, such as in the rain or in a car wash when the electronic key is
within the effective range. (The door will automatically be locked after
approximately 60 seconds if the doors are not opened and closed.)
● Gripping the door handle when wearing a glove may not unlock the door.
● If the wireless remote control is used to lock the doors when the electronic key is near the vehicle, there is a possibility that the door may not
be unlocked by the entry function. (Use the wireless remote control to
unlock the doors.)
● A sudden approach to the effective range or door handle may prevent the
doors from being unlocked. In this case, return the door handle to the
original position and check that the doors unlock before pulling the door
handle again.

32

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Notes for locking the doors
● Touching the door lock sensor while wearing gloves may delay or prevent
lock operation. Remove the gloves and touch the lock sensor again.
● When the lock operation is performed using the lock sensor, recognition
signals will be shown up to two consecutive times. After this, no recognition signals will be given.

1

● If the door handle becomes wet when washing the vehicle while the electronic key is within the effective range, the door may lock and unlock
repeatedly. In this case, place the electronic key in a location 6 ft. (2 m) or
more away from the vehicle (take care to ensure that the key is not stolen), and continue to wash the vehicle.

Before driving

● If the electronic key is inside the vehicle and a door handle becomes wet
during a car wash, a buzzer will sound outside the vehicle. To turn off the
alarm, lock all the doors.
● The lock sensor may not work properly if it comes into contact with ice,
snow, mud, etc. Clean the lock sensor and attempt to operate it again.
■ Notes for the unlocking function
● A sudden approach to the effective range or door handle may prevent the
doors from being unlocked. In this case, return the door handle to the
original position and check that the doors unlock before pulling the door
handle again.
● Gripping the door handle when wearing a glove may not unlock the door.
Remove the gloves and touch the sensor on the back of the handle
again.
● If the door handle becomes wet when washing the vehicle while the electronic key is within the effective range, the door may lock and unlock
repeatedly. In this case, place the electronic key in a location 6 ft. (2 m) or
more away from the vehicle (take care to ensure that the key is not stolen), and continue to wash the vehicle.
● If there is another electronic key in the detection area, it may take slightly
longer to unlock the doors after the door handle is gripped.

33

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ When the vehicle is not driven for extended periods
● To prevent theft of the vehicle, do not leave the electronic key within 6 ft.
(2 m) of the vehicle.
● The smart key system can be deactivated in advance. (P. 487)
■ Alarm
Using the smart key system to lock the doors will set the alarm system.
(P. 82)
■ To operate the system properly
● Make sure to carry the electronic key when operating the system. Do not
get the electronic key too close to the vehicle when operating the system
from the outside of the vehicle.
Depending on the position and holding condition of the electronic key, the
key may not be detected correctly and the system may not operate properly. (The alarm may go off accidentally, or the door lock prevention function may not operate.)
● Do not leave the electronic key inside the trunk.
The key confinement prevention function may not operate, depending on
the location of the key (close to a spare tire, the inside edge of the trunk),
conditions (inside a metal bag, close to metallic objects) and the radio
waves in the surrounding area. (P. 48)
■ If the smart key system does not operate properly
● Locking and unlocking the doors, unlocking the trunk: Use the mechanical key. (P. 441)
● Starting the engine:P. 442

34

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Electronic key battery depletion
● The standard battery life is 1 to 2 years.
● If the battery charge becomes low, a buzzer will sound in the cabin and a
message will be displayed on the multi-information display when the
engine is stopped. (P. 414)

• The smart key system or the wireless remote control does not operate.
• The detection area becomes smaller.
• The LED indicator on the key surface does not turn on.
● To avoid serious deterioration, do not leave the electronic key close to
any of the following electrical appliances that produce a magnetic field:
• TVs
• Personal computers
• Cellular phones, cordless phones and battery chargers
• Recharging cellular phones or cordless phones
• Induction cookers
• Table lamps
■ When the electronic key battery is fully depleted
P. 363
■ If the smart key system has been deactivated in a customized setting
● Locking and unlocking the doors, unlocking the trunk: Use the wireless
remote control or mechanical key. (P. 38, 441)
● Starting the engine and changing “ENGINE START STOP” switch
modes: P. 442
● Stopping the engine: P. 444
■ Customization that can be configured at Toyota dealer
Settings (e.g. smart key system) can be changed.
(Customizable features: P. 487)

35

Before driving

● As the electronic key always receives radio waves, the battery will
become depleted even if the electronic key is not used. The following
symptoms indicate that the electronic key battery may be depleted.
Replace the battery when necessary. (P. 363)

1

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Certification for smart key system
For vehicles sold in the U.S.A.
FCC ID: HYQ23AAE
FCC ID: HYQ14AHP
FCC ID: Y8PSSPLF03
NOTE:
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to
the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including
interference that may cause undesired operation.
FCC WARNING:
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible
for compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment.
For vehicles sold in Canada
NOTE:
This device complies with Industry Canada’s licence-exempt RSSs. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause
interference; and (2) This device must accept any interference, including
interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
NOTE:
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables
aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux
deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage;
(2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi,
même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.

36

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

WARNING
■ Caution regarding interference with electronic devices

● User of any electrical medical device other than implantable cardiac pacemakers, cardiac resynchronization therapy-pacemakers or implantable
cardioverter defibrillators should consult the manufacturer of the device for
information about its operation under the influence of radio waves.
Radio waves could have unexpected effects on the operation of such
medical devices.
Ask your Toyota dealer for details for disabling the entry function.

37

1

Before driving

● People with implantable cardiac pacemakers, cardiac resynchronization
therapy-pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators should maintain a reasonable distance between themselves and the smart key system
antennas. (P. 27)
The radio waves may affect the operation of such devices. If necessary,
the entry function can be disabled. Ask your Toyota dealer for details, such
as the frequency of radio waves and timing of the emitted radio waves.
Then, consult your doctor to see if you should disable the entry function.

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Wireless remote control
The wireless remote control can be used to lock and unlock the vehicle.

Vehicles without a smart key system
Locks both side doors
Check that the door is securely
locked.

Unlocks both side doors
Pressing the button unlocks
the driver’s door. Pressing the
button again within 3 seconds
unlocks the other doors.

Sounds the alarm
(press and hold)
Unlocks the trunk
(press and hold)
Vehicles with a smart key system
Locks both side doors
Check that the door is securely
locked.

Unlocks both side doors
Pressing the button unlocks
the driver’s door. Pressing the
button again within 3 seconds
unlocks the other doors.

Unlocks the trunk
(press and hold)
Sounds the alarm
(press and hold)

38

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Operation signals
Doors:

Trunk:

A buzzer sounds and the emergency flashers flash to indicate that
the doors have been locked/unlocked. (Locked: once; Unlocked:
twice)

1

A buzzer sounds to indicate that the trunk has been unlocked.

If an attempt to lock the doors is made when a door is not fully closed, a
buzzer sounds continuously. Fully close the door to stop the buzzer, and lock
the vehicle once more.
■ Panic mode
Vehicles without a smart key system
When
is pressed for longer than
about one second, an alarm will sound
intermittently and the vehicle lights will
flash to deter any person from trying to
break into or damage your vehicle.
To stop the alarm, press any button on
the wireless remote control.
Vehicles with a smart key system
When
is pressed for longer than
about one second, an alarm will sound
intermittently and the vehicle lights will
flash to deter any person from trying to
break into or damage your vehicle.
To stop the alarm, press any button on
the electronic key.

39

Before driving

■ Door lock buzzer (vehicles with a smart key system)

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Vehicle finder function
Vehicles without a smart key system
When the function is set, a buzzer
(sounds once) and the emergency flashers (flash 3 times) are used to inform the
driver of the vehicle’s location.
Press
3 times within 5 seconds
while within a circumference of approximately 30 ft. (10 m) from of the vehicle.
However, if the interval between the 3
presses is short, the system may not be
activated. This setting must be customized at your Toyota dealer.
Vehicles with a smart key system
When the function is set, a buzzer
(sounds once) and the emergency flashers (flash 3 times) are used to inform the
driver of the vehicle’s location.
Press
3 times within 5 seconds
while within a circumference of approximately 30 ft. (10 m) from of the vehicle.
However, if the interval between the 3
presses is short, the system may not be
activated. This setting must be customized at your Toyota dealer.

40

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Security feature
If a door is not opened within approximately 60 seconds after the vehicle is
unlocked, the security feature automatically locks the vehicle again.
■ Alarm (vehicles with a smart key system)
Using the wireless remote control to lock the doors will set the alarm system.
(P. 82)
Vehicles without a smart key system
The wireless remote control function may not operate normally in the following situations:
● When the wireless key battery is depleted
● Near a TV tower, electric power plant, gas station, radio station, large display, airport or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise
● When carrying a portable radio, cellular phone or other wireless communication devices
● When the wireless key is in contact with, or is covered by a metallic
object
● When other wireless key (that emit radio waves) is being used nearby
● If window tint with a metallic content or metallic objects are attached to
the rear window
Vehicles with a smart key system
P. 31
■ If the wireless remote control does not operate properly (vehicles with
a smart key system)
Locking and unlocking the doors, unlocking the trunk: Use the mechanical
key. (P. 441)
■ Key battery depletion
Vehicles without a smart key system
If the wireless remote control function does not operate, the battery may be
depleted. Replace the battery when necessary. (P. 363)
Vehicles with a smart key system
P. 35

41

Before driving

■ Conditions affecting operation

1

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ When the electronic key battery is fully depleted
P. 363
■ Confirmation of the registered key number (vehicles with a smart key
system)
The number of keys already registered to the vehicle can be confirmed. Ask
your Toyota dealer for details.
■ Customization that can be configured at your Toyota dealer
Settings (e.g. wireless remote control system) can be changed.
(Customizable features P. 487)
■ Certification for wireless remote control
For vehicles sold in the U.S.A.
FCC ID: HYQ23AAC
FCC ID: HYQ12BEL
NOTE:
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to
the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including
interference that may cause undesired operation.
FCC WARNING:
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible
for compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment.
For vehicles sold in Canada
NOTE:
This device complies with Industry Canada’s licence-exempt RSSs. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause
interference; and (2) This device must accept any interference, including
interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
NOTE:
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables
aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux
deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage;
(2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi,
même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.

42

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Doors
The vehicle can be locked and unlocked using the entry function,
wireless remote control, key or door lock switch.

■ Entry function (vehicles with a smart key system)

1

P. 26

Before driving

■ Wireless remote control
P. 38
■ Key
Turning the key operates the doors as follows:
Vehicles without a smart key system
Locks driver’s side door
Unlocks driver’s side door

Vehicles with a smart key system
The doors can also be locked and unlocked with the mechanical
key. (P. 441)
■ Door lock switch
Locks both side doors
Unlocks both side doors

43

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Inside lock button
Locks the door
Unlocks the door

Locking the doors from the outside without a key
STEP 1 Move the inside lock button to the lock position.
STEP 2 Close the door.

Vehicles with a smart key system
The door cannot be locked if the electronic key is left inside the vehicle.
The key may not be detected correctly and the door may be locked.

44

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Window open/close function linked to door operation
In order to make opening and closing the doors easier, completely closed
windows are linked to door operations. Therefore, when a door is opened, its
window opens slightly. When a door is closed, its window closes completely.

■ If the smart key system has been deactivated in a customized setting
(vehicles with a smart key system)
Use the wireless remote control or mechanical key. (P. 38, 441)

WARNING
■ To prevent an accident
Observe the following precautions while driving the vehicle.
Failure to do so may result in a door opening and an occupant falling out,
resulting in death or serious injury.
● Always use a seat belt.
● Always lock both side doors.
● Ensure that both side doors are properly closed.
● Do not pull the inside handle of the doors while driving.
The doors may be opened and the passengers are thrown out of the vehicle and it may result in serious injury or death.

45

Before driving

However, if the battery has discharged or is disconnected, this function will
not operate. (P. 449)

1

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Trunk
The trunk can be opened using the key, trunk opener, entry function
or wireless remote control.

■ Opening the trunk from inside the vehicle
Press and hold the opener
switch to release the trunk lid.

■ Opening the trunk from outside the vehicle
Key (vehicles without a smart key system)
Turn the master key clockwise
to release the trunk lid.

Entry function (vehicles with a smart key system)
P. 27

Wireless remote control
P. 38

46

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

Canceling the trunk opener feature
To protect luggage stored in the trunk against theft, do the following:
Turn the main switch in the trunk
off to disable the trunk opener.
Off
Vehicles without a smart key system:
The trunk lid can only be opened
with the master key.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
The trunk lid can only be opened
with the mechanical key.

47

Before driving

On

1

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

■ Trunk light
The trunk light turns on when the trunk is opened.
■ Function to prevent the trunk being locked with the electronic key
inside (vehicles with a smart key system)
● When all doors are being locked, closing the trunk lid with the electronic
key left inside the trunk will sound an alarm.
In this case, the trunk lid can be opened using the entry function.
● Even when the spare electronic key is put in the trunk with all the doors
locked, the key confinement prevention function can be activated so the
trunk can be opened. In order to prevent theft, take all electronic keys
with you when leaving the vehicle.
● Even when the electronic key is put in the trunk with all the doors are
locked, the key may not be detected depending on the places and the
surrounding radio wave conditions. In this case, the key confinement prevention function cannot be activated, causing the doors to lock when the
trunk is closed. Make sure to check where the key is before closing the
trunk.
● The key confinement prevention function cannot be activated if any one
of the doors is unlocked. In this case, open the trunk using the trunk
opener.
■ Internal trunk release lever
The trunk lid can be opened by pulling on
the glow-in-the-dark lever located on the
inside of the trunk lid.
The lever will continue to glow for some
time after the trunk lid is closed.

■ Using the mechanical key (vehicles with a smart key system)
The trunk can be also opened using the mechanical key. (P. 441)
■ Which key to the vehicle is to leave with a parking attendant after disabling the trunk opener main switch
P. 23

48

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

WARNING
■ Caution while driving

● Before driving the vehicle, make sure that the trunk lid is fully closed. If the
trunk lid is not fully closed, it may open unexpectedly while driving, causing an accident.
● Never let anyone sit in the trunk. In the event of sudden braking or a collision, they are susceptible to death or serious injury.
■ When children are in the vehicle
Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury.
● Do not allow children to play in the trunk.
If a child is accidentally locked in the trunk, they could suffer from heat
exhaustion, suffocation or other injuries.
● Do not allow a child to open or close the trunk lid.
Doing so may cause the trunk lid to operate unexpectedly, or cause the
child’s hands, head, or neck to be caught by the closing trunk lid.

49

1

Before driving

● Keep the trunk lid closed while driving.
If the trunk lid is left open, it may hit near-by objects while driving or luggage in the trunk may be unexpectedly thrown out, causing an accident.
In addition, exhaust gases may enter the vehicle, causing death or a serious health hazard. Make sure to close the trunk lid before driving.

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

WARNING
■ Using the trunk
Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may cause parts of the body to be caught, resulting in serious injury.
● Remove any heavy loads, such as snow and ice, from the trunk lid before
opening it. Failure to do so may cause the trunk lid to suddenly shut again
after it is opened.
● When opening or closing the trunk lid, thoroughly check to make sure the
surrounding area is safe.
● If anyone is in the vicinity, make sure they are safe and let them know that
the trunk is about to open or close.
● Use caution when opening or closing the trunk lid in windy weather as it
may move abruptly in strong wind.
● The trunk lid may suddenly shut if it is
not opened fully. It is more difficult to
open or close the trunk lid on an
incline than on a level surface, so
beware of the trunk lid unexpectedly
opening or closing by itself. Make
sure that the trunk lid is fully open
and secure before using the trunk.

50

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

WARNING
● When closing the trunk lid, observe
the following precautions:

1

Before driving

• Take extra care to prevent your
fingers etc. from being caught.
Vehicles without a rear spoiler
• Make sure to press the trunk lid
lightly on its outer surface.
Vehicles with a rear spoiler
• Do not place your hand(s)
between the rear spoiler and trunk
lid when closing the trunk lid.
• To close the trunk lid, press the
rear spoiler on either of the portions .
● Do not attach any accessories other than genuine Toyota parts to the trunk
lid. Such additional weight on the trunk lid may cause the lid to suddenly
shut again after it is opened.
■ Trunk lid damper stays
Do not pull on or disassemble the trunk lid damper stays, or dispose of them
in a fire. Illustrations on the trunk lid damper stays indicate the following:

: Do not pull

: Do not disassemble

: Do not dispose of in fire

51

1-2. Opening, closing and locking the doors and trunk

NOTICE
■ Trunk damper stays
The trunk lid is equipped with damper stays that hold the trunk lid in place.
Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may cause damage to trunk damper stays, resulting in a
malfunction.
● Do not attach any foreign objects such as stickers, plastic sheets and
adhesives to damper stay rods.
● Do not touch damper stay rods with gloves or other fabric items.
● Do not attach any accessories other than genuine Toyota parts to the trunk
lid.
● Do not apply lateral force to damper stays or place your hand on it.

52

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Front seats
Seat position
lever

adjustment

Seatback angle adjustment
lever

1

Before driving

Vertical height adjustment
lever (driver’s side only)
Seatback fold strap

53

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Getting in and out of the rear seats
To get in and out of the rear seats, use the seatback angle adjustment lever or seatback fold strap.
■ Before getting in or out of the rear seats
Release the seat belt from the seat belt guide. (P. 61)
■ Getting in the rear seats
Lift the seatback angle adjustment lever.
The seatback will fold forward.
Front passenger seat only: The
seat can be slid forward and
backward.

■ Getting out of the rear seats
Pull the seatback fold strap.
The seatback will fold forward.
Front passenger seat only: The
seat can be slid forward and
backward.

■ After getting in or out of the rear seats
Return the seatback to the upright position until the seat locks.
Front passenger seat only: The seat will lock in position at the point where
the seatback reaches the upright position.
■ Seat dust cover
Always remove the seat dust cover that may be attached at the time of purchase before using the seat.
54

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

WARNING
■ Seat adjustment

● After adjusting the seat, make sure that the seat is locked in position.
● Take care not to hit passengers with the seat.
When sliding the seat rearward, make sure not to squash the legs of the
rear passengers.
● When returning the seatback upright, perform seatback angle adjustment
while holding down the seatback.
● Do not pull on or use the seat belt guide to adjust or fold the front seat.
● Do not put your hands under the seat or near the moving parts to avoid
injury. Fingers or hands may become jammed in the seat mechanism.
■ When driving the vehicle
Never operate the seatback angle adjustment lever or seatback fold strap.
Doing so could cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury.
■ Getting in and out of the rear seats
● When getting in or out of the rear seats, make sure not to get your hands,
legs, etc. squashed in the movable or connecting parts.
● When getting in or out of the rear seats, make sure not to trip on the seat
rails.
● After getting in or out of the rear seats, always make sure the front seat is
locked in position.
■ When operating the front seat from the rear seat
Make sure that no passenger is seated in the front seat.

55

1

Before driving

● To reduce the risk of sliding under the lap belt during a collision, do not
recline the seat more than necessary.
If the seat is too reclined, the lap belt may slide past the hips and apply
restraint forces directly to the abdomen, or your neck may contact the
shoulder belt, increasing the risk of death or serious injury in the event of
an accident.
Adjustments should not be made while driving as the seat may unexpectedly move and cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle.

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Rear seats
The seatbacks of the rear seats can be folded down.

Pull the seatback lock release
straps in the trunk for the seatback you wish to fold down.
To return the seatbacks to its
original position, lift it up until it
locks.

■ Seat dust cover
Always remove the seat dust cover that may be attached at the time of purchase before using the seat.

WARNING
■ When folding the rear seatbacks down
Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or
serious injury.
● Do not fold the seatbacks down while driving.
● Stop the vehicle on level ground, set the parking brake and shift the shift
lever to P (automatic transmission) or N (manual transmission).

56

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

WARNING
● Do not allow anyone to sit on a folded seatback or in the trunk while driving.
1

● Do not allow children to enter the trunk.
■ After returning the rear seatback to the upright position

● Push the rear seatback and then check
that it is securely locked in position by
lightly pushing it back and forth.
If the seatback is not securely locked,
the red portion of the seatback lock
indicator will be visible. Make sure that
the red portion is not visible.

● Check that the seat belts are not twisted or caught in the seatback.
■ Before using the rear seat belts
Always make sure that the seat belt is not
caught in the seatback or twisted in one
of the hooks that secure the seatback.
Failure to do so may cause the seat belt
to not be fastened correctly or to become
ineffective in a collision, resulting in death
or serious injury.

57

Before driving

Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or
serious injury.

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Head restraints
Head restraints are provided for front seats.

Up
Pull the head restraints up.

Down
Push the head restraint down
while pushing the lock release
button.
Lock release button

■ Removing the head restraints
Pull the head restraint up while pressing
the lock release button.

■ Installing the head restraints
Align the head restraint with the installation holes and push it down to the lock
position.
Press and hold the lock release button
when lowering the head restraint.

58

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

■ Adjusting the height of the head restraints
Make sure that the head restraints are
adjusted so that the center of the head
restraint is closest to the top of your ears.

1

Before driving

WARNING
■ Head restraint precautions
Observe the following precautions regarding the head restraints. Failure to
do so may result in death or serious injury.
● Use the head restraints designed for each respective seat.
● Adjust the head restraints to the correct position at all times.
● After adjusting the head restraints, push down on them and make sure
they are locked in position.
● Do not drive with the head restraints removed.

59

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Seat belts
Make sure that all occupants are wearing their seat belts before driving the vehicle.

■ Correct use of the seat belts
● Extend the shoulder belt so
that it comes fully over the
shoulder, but does not
come into contact with the
neck or slide off the shoulder.
● Position the lap belt as low
as possible over the hips.
● Adjust the position of the
seatback. Sit up straight
and well back in the seat.
● Do not twist the seat belt.
■ Fastening and releasing the seat belt
Fasten the seat belt
Push the plate into the buckle
until a click sound is heard.

Release the seat belt
Press the release button.
Release button

60

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Front seat belt guide
To enable the seat belt to be
easily extended, pass the seat
belt through the guide.

Seat belt pretensioners (front seats)
The pretensioner helps the seat
belt to quickly restrain the occupant by retracting the seat belt
when the vehicle is subjected to
certain types of severe frontal or
side collision or a vehicle rollover.
The pretensioner may not activate in the event of a minor frontal
or side impact or a rear impact.

61

Before driving

When getting in or out of the rear
seats, release the seat belt from
the guide.

1

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

■ Emergency locking retractor (ELR)
The retractor will lock the belt during a sudden stop or on impact. It may also
lock if you lean forward too quickly. A slow, easy motion will allow the belt to
extend so that you can move around fully.
■ Automatic locking retractor (ALR)
When a passenger's shoulder belt is completely extended and then
retracted even slightly, the belt is locked in that position and cannot be
extended. This feature is used to hold the child restraint system (CRS) firmly.
To free the belt again, fully retract the belt and then pull the belt out once
more. (P. 141)
■ Child seat belt usage
The seat belts of your vehicle are principally designed for persons of adult
size.
● Use a child restraint system appropriate for the child, until the child
becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle's seat belt.
(P. 137)
● When the child becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle's seat
belt, follow the instructions on P. 60 regarding seat belt usage.
■ Seat belt pretensioners
● Seatbelt pretensioners are not designed to activate in a rear impact or
minor frontal or side impact.
● The following four components operate simultaneously when the vehicle
is involved in a rollover accident.
• Seat belt pretensioner for driver
• Seat belt pretensioner for front passenger
• SRS curtain shield airbag for driver’s seat side
• SRS curtain shield airbag for front passenger’s seat side

62

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

● The following four components operate simultaneously when the vehicle
is subjected to a severe frontal collision.

● The following two components operate simultaneously when the vehicle
is subjected to a severe collision on the driver’s seat side of the vehicle.
• Seat belt pretensioner for driver
• Side airbag for driver
● The following two components operate simultaneously when the vehicle
is subjected to a severe collision on the front passenger’s seat side of the
vehicle.
• Seat belt pretensioner for front passenger
• Side airbag for front passenger
● Pretensioners are designed to function on a one-time-only basis. In the
event that a pretensioner is activated, both the driver’s and front passenger’s seat belt retractor assemblies must be replaced only by Toyota
dealer. When replacing seat belt retractor assemblies for the front seating positions, use only genuine Toyota parts equipped with a force limiter.
● If either front seat belt does not retract or cannot be pulled out due to a
malfunction or activation of the pretensioner, contact your Toyota dealer
as soon as possible.
● If the front seat belt retractor assembly or surrounding area has been
damaged, contact your Toyota dealer as soon as possible.
● When you sell your vehicle, we urge you to explain to the buyer that it
has seat belt pretensioners by alerting the buyer to the contents of this
section.
■ Replacing the belt after the pretensioner has been activated
If the vehicle is involved in multiple collisions, the pretensioner will activate
for the first collision, but will not activate for the second or subsequent collisions.

63

1

Before driving

• Seat belt pretensioner for driver
• Seat belt pretensioner for front passenger
• SRS front airbag for driver
• SRS front airbag for front passenger*
*: This does not operate while the occupant classification system determines to deactivate the airbag operation. For details, refer to “Front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag” (P. 97)

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

WARNING
Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of injury in the event of
sudden braking, sudden swerving or an accident.
Failure to do so may cause death or serious injury.
■ Wearing a seat belt
● Ensure that all passengers wear a seat belt.
● Always wear a seat belt properly.
● Each seat belt should be used by one person only. Do not use a seat belt
for more than one person at once, including children.
● Toyota recommends that children be seated in the rear seat and always
use a seat belt and/or an appropriate child restraint system.
● To achieve a proper seating position, do not recline the seat more than
necessary. The seat belt is most effective when the occupants are sitting
up straight and well back in the seats.
● Do not wear the shoulder belt under your arm.
● Always wear your seat belt low and snug across your hips.
■ Pregnant women
Obtain medical advice and wear the seat
belt in the proper way. (P. 60)
Women who are pregnant should position
the lap belt as low as possible over the
hips in the same manner as other occupants. Extend the shoulder belt completely over the shoulder and position the
belt across the chest. Avoid belt contact
over the rounding of the abdominal area.
If the seat belt is not worn properly, not
only the pregnant woman, but also the
fetus could suffer death or serious injury
as a result of sudden braking or a collision.

64

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

WARNING
■ People with a medical condition
Obtain medical advice and wear the seat belt in the proper way.

1

■ When children are in the vehicle

■ Seat belt pretensioners
If the pretensioner has activated, the SRS warning light will come on. In that
case, the seat belt cannot be used again and must be replaced at your
Toyota dealer.

65

Before driving

Do not allow children to play with the seat belt. If the seat belt becomes
twisted around a child’s neck, it may lead to choking or other serious injuries
that could result in death.
If this occurs and the buckle cannot be unfastened, scissors should be used
to cut the belt.

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

WARNING
■ Seat belt damage and wear
● Do not damage the seat belts by allowing the belt, plate, or buckle to be
jammed in the door.
● Inspect the seat belt system periodically. Check for cuts, fraying, and loose
parts. Replace a damaged seat belt immediately. Damaged seat belts cannot protect an occupant from death or serious injury.
● Ensure that the belt and plate are locked and the belt is not twisted.
If the seat belt does not function correctly, immediately contact your Toyota
dealer.
● Replace the seat assembly, including the belts, if your vehicle has been
involved in a serious accident, even if there's no obvious damage.
● Do not attempt to install, remove, modify, disassemble or dispose of the
seat belts. Have any necessary repairs carried out by your Toyota dealer.
Inappropriate handling of the pretensioner may prevent it from operating
properly, resulting in death or serious injury.
■ When using the seat belt guide
● Always make sure that the belt is not twisted, and runs freely through the
guide.
● Regardless of whether the guide is used or not, always secure the seat
belt guide button.
● Do not hang from or pull the guide forcefully.
■ Before using the rear seat belts
Always make sure that the seat belt is not
caught in the seatback or twisted in one
of the hooks that secure the seatback.
Failure to do so may cause the seat belt
to not be fastened correctly or to become
ineffective in a collision, resulting in death
or serious injury.

66

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Steering wheel
The steering wheel can be adjusted to a comfortable position.
STEP 1

Hold the steering wheel and
push the lever down.

1

Before driving

STEP 2

Adjust to the ideal position by
moving the steering wheel
horizontally and vertically.
After adjustment, pull the lever
up to secure the steering
wheel.

WARNING
■ Caution while driving
Do not adjust the steering wheel while driving.
Doing so may cause the driver to mishandle the vehicle and an accident,
resulting in death or serious injury.
■ After adjusting the steering wheel
Make sure that the steering wheel is securely locked.
Otherwise, the steering wheel may move suddenly, possibly causing an
accident, and resulting in death or serious injury.

67

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Anti-glare inside rear view mirror
The rear view mirror’s position can be adjusted to enable sufficient
confirmation of the rear view in accordance with the driver's seating
posture.

■ Automatic anti-glare function
Responding to the level of brightness of the headlights of vehicles behind,
the reflected light is automatically reduced. When the shift lever is shifted to
R and a rear view image is displayed on the rear view monitor, the automatic
anti-glare function will be disabled.
■ To prevent sensor error
To ensure that the sensors operate properly, do not touch or cover them.

WARNING
■ Caution while driving
Do not adjust the position of the mirror while driving.
Doing so may lead to mishandling of the vehicle and cause an accident,
resulting in death or serious injury.

68

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Outside rear view mirrors
Mirror angle can be adjusted using the switch.
STEP 1

Select a mirror to adjust.
Left

1

Right
Before driving

STEP 2

Adjust the mirror.
Up
Right
Down
Left

69

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

Folding the mirrors
Push the mirror back in the direction of the vehicle’s rear.

■ The mirrors can be adjusted when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in ACCESSORY or IGNITION ON
mode.
■ When the mirrors are fogged up (vehicles with outside rear view mirror
defoggers)
The outside rear view mirrors can be cleared using the mirror defoggers.
Turn on the rear window defogger to turn on the outside rear view mirror
defoggers. (P. 284)

70

1-3. Adjustable components (seats, mirrors, steering wheel)

WARNING
■ When driving the vehicle
Observe the following precautions while driving.
Failure to do so may result in loss of control of the vehicle and cause an
accident, resulting in death or serious injury.
● Do not drive with the mirrors folded.
● Both the driver and passenger side mirrors must be extended and properly
adjusted before driving.
■ When a mirror is moving
To avoid personal injury and mirror malfunction, be careful not to get your
hand caught by the moving mirror.
■ When the mirror defoggers are operating (vehicles with outside rear
view mirror defoggers)
Do not touch the rear view mirror surfaces, as they can become very hot and
burn you.

71

Before driving

● Do not adjust the mirrors while driving.

1

1-4. Opening and closing the windows

Power windows
The power windows can be opened and closed using the switches.

Operating the switch moves the windows as follows:
Closing
One-touch closing*
Opening
One-touch opening*

*: Pushing the switch in the
opposite direction will stop window travel partway.

Window lock switch
Press the switch down to lock
the passenger window glasses.
Use this switch to prevent children from accidentally opening or
closing a passenger window.

72

1-4. Opening and closing the windows

■ The power windows can be operated when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ON” position.
1

Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode.
Vehicles without a smart key system
The power windows can be operated for approximately 45 seconds even
after the engine switch is turned to the “ACC” or “LOCK” position. They cannot, however, be operated once either door is opened.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The power windows can be operated for approximately 45 seconds even
after the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is turned to ACCESSORY mode or
turned off. They cannot, however, be operated once either door is opened.
■ Jam protection function
If an object becomes caught between the window and the body, window
travel is stopped and the window is opened slightly.
■ When the power window does not close normally
If the jam protection function is operating abnormally and a window cannot
be closed, close all the doors and perform the following operations using the
power window switch on the relevant door.
STEP 1 Vehicles without a smart key system: After stopping the vehicle, the

engine switch is turned to the “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system: After stopping the vehicle, the
“ENGINE START STOP” switch is turned to IGNITION ON mode.
STEP 2 Hold the power window switch in the one-touch closing position two

consecutive times.
STEP 3 Hold the power window switch in the one-touch closing position

once again and continue holding for 1 second or more after the window closes completely.
If you push the power window switch to the opening position while the window is moving, start again from the beginning. If the window continues to
close but then re-open slightly even after performing the above procedure
correctly, have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer.

73

Before driving

■ Operating the power windows after turning the engine off

1-4. Opening and closing the windows

WARNING
■ Closing the windows
Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury.
● The driver is responsible for all the power window operations, including the
operation for the passengers. In order to prevent accidental operation,
especially by a child, do not let a child operate the power windows. It is
possible for children and other passengers to have body parts caught in
the power window. Also, when riding with a child, it is recommended to use
the window lock switch. (P. 72)
● Check to make sure that all passengers do not have any part of their body
in a position where it could be caught when a window is being operated.
● When exiting the vehicle, turn the engine switch (vehicles without a smart
key system) or the “ENGINE START STOP” switch (vehicles with a smart
key system) off, carry the key and exit the vehicle along with the child.
There may be accidental operation, due to mischief, etc., that may possibly lead to an accident.
■ Jam protection function
● Never use any part of your body to intentionally activate the jam protection
function.
● The jam protection function may not work if something gets caught just
before the window fully closes.

74

1-5. Refueling

Opening the fuel tank cap
Perform the following steps to open the fuel tank cap:

■ Before refueling the vehicle
● Vehicles without a smart key system: Turn the engine switch
off and ensure that all the doors and windows are closed.

1

Before driving

● Vehicles with a smart key system: Turn the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch off and ensure that all the doors and windows
are closed.
● Confirm the type of fuel. (P. 76)
■ Opening the fuel tank cap
STEP 1

Pull up the opener to open the
fuel filler door.

STEP 2

Turn the fuel tank cap slowly
to open.

75

1-5. Refueling

STEP 3

Hang the fuel tank cap on the
back of the fuel filler door.

Closing the fuel tank cap
After refueling, turn the fuel tank
cap until you hear a click. Once
the cap is released, it will turn
slightly in the opposite direction.

■ Fuel types
Unleaded gasoline (octane rating of 93 [98 RON] or higher)
If unleaded gasoline with an octane rating of 93 (98 RON) is not available,
unleaded gasoline with an octane rating of 91 (95 RON) may be used with
no detriment to engine durability or driveability.

76

1-5. Refueling

WARNING
■ Refueling the vehicle
Observe the following precautions while refueling the vehicle.
Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury.

1

● Do not handle fuel indoors.

● Always hold the grips on the fuel tank cap and turn it slowly to remove it.
A whooshing sound may be heard when the fuel tank cap is loosened.
Wait until the sound cannot be heard before fully removing the cap.
In hot weather, pressurized fuel may spray out of the filler neck and cause
injury.
● Do not allow anyone that has not discharged static electricity from their
body to come close to an open fuel tank.
● Do not allow anyone to approach the area of the vehicle near the fuel filler
pipe while refueling is in progress.
● Do not inhale vaporized fuel.
Fuel contains substances that are harmful if inhaled.
● Do not smoke while refueling the vehicle.
Doing so may cause the fuel to ignite and cause a fire.
● Do not return to the vehicle or touch any person or object that is statically
charged.
This may cause static electricity to build up, resulting in a possible ignition
hazard.

77

Before driving

● After exiting the vehicle and before opening the fuel door, touch an
unpainted metal surface to discharge any static electricity. It is important to
discharge static electricity before refueling because sparks resulting from
static electricity can cause fuel vapors to ignite while refueling.

1-5. Refueling

WARNING
■ When refueling
Observe the following precautions to prevent fuel overflowing from the fuel
tank:
● Securely insert the fuel nozzle into the fuel filler neck
● Stop filling the tank after the fuel nozzle automatically clicks off
● Do not top off the fuel tank
● Observe other precautions that are posted at the service station.
● Turn the cap to the right until it clicks to ensure that it is fully tightened. If
the cap is not securely tightened, fuel spillage could occur in the event of
an accident, creating a fire hazard.
■ When replacing the fuel cap
Do not use anything but a genuine Toyota fuel tank cap designed for your
vehicle. Doing so may cause a fire or other incident which may result in
death or serious injury.

NOTICE
■ Refueling
● Do not spill fuel during refueling.
Doing so may damage the vehicle, such as causing the emission control
system to operate abnormally or damaging fuel system components or the
vehicle's painted surface.
● Never add any cleaning agents to the fuel tank. The addition of a cleaning
agent may cause damage to the fuel system.
● Immediately put fuel in the tank whenever the low fuel warning light illuminates. Engine misfires as a result of an empty tank could cause damage to
the engine.

78

1-6. Theft deterrent system

Engine immobilizer system
The vehicle's keys have built-in transponder chips that prevent the
engine from starting if the key has not been previously registered in
the vehicle's on-board computer.
1

Never leave the keys inside the vehicle when you leave the vehicle.

Before driving

This system is designed to help prevent vehicle theft but does not
guarantee absolute security against all vehicle thefts.

Vehicles without a smart
key system
The indicator light flashes after
the key has been removed
from the engine switch to indicate that the system is operating.
The indicator light stops flashing after the registered key has
been inserted into the engine
switch to indicate that the system has been canceled.
Vehicles with a smart key
system
The indicator light flashes after
the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch has been turned off to
indicate that the system is
operating.
The indicator light stops flashing after the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch has been turned
to ACCESSORY or IGNITION
ON mode to indicate that the
system has been canceled.
79

1-6. Theft deterrent system

■ When the vehicle cannot be started with the registered key (vehicles
without a smart key system)
Remove the key and try again.
■ System maintenance
The vehicle has a maintenance-free type engine immobilizer system.
■ Conditions that may cause the system to malfunction
● If the key is in contact with a metallic object
● If the key is in close proximity to or touching a key to the security system
(key with a built-in transponder chip) of another vehicle
■ Certification for engine immobilizer system (vehicles without a smart
key system)
For vehicles sold in the U.S.A.
FCC ID: MOZRI-38BFH
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to
the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including
interference that may cause undesired operation.
FCC WARNING
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible
for compliance could void the user’s authority to operate the equipment.
For vehicles sold in Canada
NOTE:
This device complies with Industry Canada’s licence-exempt RSSs. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause
interference; and (2) This device must accept any interference, including
interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
NOTE:
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables
aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux
deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage;
(2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi,
même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.

80

1-6. Theft deterrent system

■ Certification for engine immobilizer system (vehicles with a smart key
system)
For vehicles sold in the U.S.A.
FCC ID: Y8PSSPIMB03

FCC WARNING
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible
for compliance could void the user’s authority to operate the equipment.
For vehicles sold in Canada
NOTE:
This device complies with Industry Canada’s licence-exempt RSSs. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause
interference; and (2) This device must accept any interference, including
interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
NOTE:
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables
aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux
deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage;
(2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi,
même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.

NOTICE
■ To ensure the system operates correctly
Do not modify or remove the system. If modified or removed, the proper
operation of the system cannot be guaranteed.

81

1

Before driving

This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to
the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including
interference that may cause undesired operation.

1-6. Theft deterrent system

Alarm
The alarm’s default setting is set to off. To use the alarm, perform the
activating the alarm system procedures.
The system sounds the alarm and flashes the lights when forcible
entry is detected.

■ Triggering of the alarm
The alarm is triggered when a locked door or the trunk is
unlocked or opened in any way other than using the entry function or wireless remote control while the alarm is set.
■ Setting the alarm system
Close the doors and/or trunk and perform one of the following:
● Lock the doors using the entry function.
● Lock the doors using the wireless remote control.
● Lock the doors from the outside without using a key.
(P. 44)
The system will be set automatically after 30 seconds or
more elapse.
The indicator light changes
from being on to flashing when
the system is set.

: If equipped
82

1-6. Theft deterrent system

■ Deactivating or stopping the alarm
Perform one of the following to deactivate or stop the alarm:
● Unlock the doors using the entry function.

1

● Unlock the doors using the wireless remote control.
Before driving

● Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to ACCESSORY or
IGNITION ON mode, or start the engine. (The alarm will be
deactivated or stopped after a few seconds.)

Activating/deactivating the alarm system
STEP 1 Check that both side doors and the trunk are closed.
STEP 2 Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to IGNITION ON

mode.
Open the driver’s door while
pressing and holding
on
the door lock switch and continue to press
for approximately 10 seconds after the
driver’s door has opened.

STEP 3

The alarm system changes
between activated and deactivated as follows.
Alarm status

Horn

Multi-information
display

Deactivated

Sounds twice

AL oF

Activated

Sounds once

AL on

83

1-6. Theft deterrent system

■ System maintenance
The vehicle has a maintenance-free type alarm system.
■ Items to check before locking the vehicle
To prevent unexpected triggering of the alarm and vehicle theft, make sure
of the following.
● Nobody is in the vehicle.
● The windows are closed before the alarm is set.
● No valuables or other personal items are left in the vehicle.
■ Opening and closing the trunk
● If the alarm setting operations are performed with the trunk left open, the
alarm will not be set. After closing the trunk, the alarm is set after 30 seconds or more elapse.
● When the trunk is unlocked using the entry function or wireless remote
control while the alarm is set, the alarm goes into standby mode. After
closing the trunk, the alarm is set again after 30 seconds or more elapse.
■ Triggering of the alarm
The alarm may be triggered in the following situations.
Stopping the alarm deactivates the alarm system.
● A person inside the vehicle opens a
door or the trunk.

84

1-6. Theft deterrent system

● The battery is recharged or replaced
when the vehicle is locked.

1

Be sure to deactivate the alarm system.
If the battery is disconnected before deactivating the alarm system, the
alarm may be triggered when the battery is reconnected.
■ Customization that can be configured at your Toyota dealer
Settings (e.g. alarm system) can be changed.
(Customizable features P. 487)

NOTICE
■ To ensure the system operates correctly
Do not modify or remove the system. If modified or removed, the proper
operation of the system cannot be guaranteed.

85

Before driving

■ When the battery is disconnected

1-6. Theft deterrent system

Theft prevention labels (U.S.A.)
These labels are attached to
the vehicle to reduce vehicle
theft by facilitating the tracing
and recovery of parts from stolen vehicles. Do not remove
under penalty of law.

86

1-7. Safety information

Correct driving posture
Drive with a good posture as follows:

Sit upright and well back in
the seat. (P. 53)

1

Before driving

Adjust the position of the
seat forward or backward to
ensure the pedals can be
reached
and
easily
depressed to the extent
required. (P. 53)
Adjust the seatback so that
the controls are easily operable. (P. 53)
Adjust the tilt and telescopic
positions of the steering
wheel to allow easy operation and to ensure the airbag is facing your chest.
(P. 67)
Lock the head restraint in
place with the center of the
head restraint closest to the
top of your ears. (P. 58)
Wear the seat belt correctly.
(P. 60)

87

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ While driving
● Do not adjust the position of the driver's seat.
Doing so could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle.
● Do not place a cushion between the driver or passenger and the seatback.
A cushion may prevent correct posture from being achieved, and reduce
the effectiveness of the seat belt and head restraint, increasing the risk of
death or serious injury to the driver or passenger.
● Do not place anything under the front seats.
Objects placed under the front seats may become jammed in the seat
tracks and stop the seat from locking in place. This may lead to an accident resulting in serious injury or death. The adjustment mechanism may
also be damaged.
■ Adjusting the seat position
● Take care when adjusting the seat position to ensure that other passengers are not injured by the moving seat.
● Do not put your hands under the seat or near the moving parts to avoid
injury.
Fingers or hands may become jammed in the seat mechanism.

88

1-7. Safety information

SRS airbag (Supplemental Restraint System airbag)
The SRS airbags inflate when the vehicle is subjected to certain
types of severe impacts that may cause significant injury to the
occupants. They work together with the seat belts to help reduce the
risk of death or serious injury.

1

Before driving

SRS: This stands for supplemental restraint system. This name is
used because the airbag system supplements the vehicle’s seat
belts.

Models with SRS airbags and seat belts for driver, front passenger, and rear passengers
Your vehicle is equipped with a supplemental restraint system in
addition to a seat belt at each front seating positions and each rear
seating positions. The supplemental restraint system (SRS) consists of six airbags. The configurations are as follows.

89

1-7. Safety information

Driver’s and front passenger’s frontal airbags
Driver’s and front passenger’s side airbags
Curtain shield airbags (for driver, front passenger, and rear passengers)
These SRS airbags are designed only as a supplement to the primary protection provided by the seat belt.
The system also controls front seat belt pretensioners. For operation instructions and precautions concerning the seat belt pretensioner, refer to “Seat belt pretensioners”. (P. 61)

■ When you sell your vehicle
When you sell your vehicle, we urge you to explain to the buyer that it is
equipped with SRS airbags by alerting the buyer to the applicable section in
this Owner’s Manual.

90

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag

Not wearing a seat belt increases the chance of severe injury or death in a
crash even when the vehicle has the SRS airbag.
For instructions and precautions concerning the seat belt system, refer to
“Seat belts”. (P. 60)
● Do not sit or lean unnecessarily close to the SRS airbag. Because the
SRS airbag deploys with considerable speed - faster than the blink of an
eye - and force to protect in high speed collisions, the force of an airbag
can injure an occupant whose body is too close to SRS airbag.
It is also important to wear your seat belt to help avoid injuries that can
result when the SRS airbag contacts an occupant not in proper position
such as one thrown forward during pre-accident braking.
Even when properly positioned, there remains a possibility that an occupant may suffer minor injury such as abrasions and bruises to the face or
arms because of the SRS airbag deployment force.
● The SRS airbags deploy with considerable speed and force. Occupants
who are out of proper position when the SRS airbag deploys could suffer
very serious injuries. Because the SRS airbag needs enough space for
deployment, the driver should always sit upright and well back in the seat
as far from the steering wheel as practical while still maintaining full vehicle control and the front passenger should move the seat as far back as
possible and sit upright and well back in the seat.
● Do not place any objects over or near the SRS airbag cover or between
you and the SRS airbag. If the SRS airbag deploys, those objects could
interfere with its proper operation and could be propelled inside the vehicle
and cause injury.

91

1

Before driving

● To obtain maximum protection in the event of an accident, the driver and
all passengers in the vehicle should always wear seat belts when the vehicle is moving. The SRS airbag is designed only to be a supplement to the
primary protection provided by the seat belt. It does not eliminate the need
to fasten seat belts. In combination with the seat belts, it offers the best
combined protection in case of a serious accident.

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag
● Put children aged 12 and under in the
rear seat properly restrained at all
times. The SRS airbag deploys with
considerable speed and force and can
injure or even kill children, especially if
they are 12 years of age and under and
are not restrained or improperly
restrained. Because children are lighter
and weaker than adults, their risk of
being injured from deployment is
greater.
For that reason, we strongly recommend that ALL children (including those
in child seats and those that have outgrown child restraint devices) sit in the
REAR seat properly restrained at all
times in a child restraint device or in a
seat belt, whichever is appropriate for
the child's age, height and weight.
Secure ALL types of child restraint
devices (including forward facing child
seats) in the REAR seats at all times.
According to accident statistics, children are safer when properly restrained
in the rear seating positions than in the
front seating positions.
For instructions and precautions concerning the child restraint system, refer
to “Child restraint systems”. (P. 137)

92

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag
● NEVER INSTALL A REARWARD FACING CHILD SEAT IN THE FRONT
SEAT. DOING SO RISKS SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH TO THE CHILD
BY PLACING THE CHILD’S HEAD TOO CLOSE TO THE SRS AIRBAG.

● When the SRS airbag deploys, some smoke will be released. This smoke
could cause breathing problems for people with a history of asthma or
other breathing trouble. If you or your passengers have breathing problems after SRS airbag deploys, get fresh air promptly.
● A deploying SRS airbag releases hot gas. Occupants could get burned if
they come into direct contact with the hot gas.

93

Before driving

● Never allow a child to stand up, or to kneel on the front passenger’s seat,
or never hold a child on your lap or in your arms. The SRS airbag deploys
with considerable force and can injure or even kill the child.

1

1-7. Safety information

SRS airbag system components

Front sub sensor (right-hand
side)

Side airbag sensor (center
pillar right-hand side)

SRS warning light

Curtain shield airbag sensor
(rear wheel house right-hand
side)

Frontal
airbag
module
(driver's side) (two-stage)
Front passenger’s frontal airbag ON and OFF indicator
(center of instrument panel)
Frontal airbag module (front
passenger’s
side)
(twostage)
Front passenger’s occupant
detection control module
Door impact sensor (righthand side)
Curtain shield airbag module (right-hand side)
Airbag wiring
Side airbag module (front
passenger’s side)
94

Seat belt pretensioner (front
passenger’s side)
Satellite
safing
sensor
(under the center of the rear
seats)
Front passenger’s occupant
classification system sensor
Seat belt buckle switch (front
passenger’s side)
Seat
belt
(driver’s side)

pretensioner

Curtain shield airbag sensor
(rear wheel house left-hand
side)

1-7. Safety information

Side airbag sensor (center
pillar left-hand side)
Side airbag module (driver’s
side)
Door impact sensor (lefthand side)

Airbag
control
module
(including impact sensors
and rollover sensors)
Front sub sensor (left-hand
side)

1

Your vehicle is equipped with ADVANCED AIRBAGS designed based
on US motor vehicle safety standards (FMVSS208). The airbag system controls airbag deployment power for the driver and front passenger. The front passenger's airbag system consists of the front
passenger occupant detection control module etc.
The main SRS airbag system components are shown above. The
SRS airbag system is controlled by the airbag control module. The
airbag control module consists of an airbag sensor.
In certain types of severe front or side impacts, the SRS airbag system triggers the airbag inflators. A chemical reaction in the inflators
quickly fills the airbags with non-toxic gas to help restrain the motion
of the occupants.
■ If the SRS airbags deploy (inflate)
● Slight abrasions, burns, bruising etc., may be sustained from SRS airbags, due to the extremely high speed deployment (inflation) by hot
gases.
● A loud noise and white powder will be emitted.
● Parts of the airbag module (steering wheel hub, airbag cover and inflator)
as well as the front seats, parts of the front and rear pillars, and roof side
rails, may be hot for several minutes. The airbag itself may also be hot.
● The windshield may crack.

95

Before driving

Curtain shield airbag module (left-hand side)

1-7. Safety information

Toyota advanced frontal airbag system
Your vehicle is equipped with a Toyota advanced frontal airbag system that complies with the new advanced frontal airbag requirements
in the amended Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) No.
208.
The Toyota advanced frontal airbag system automatically determines
the deployment force of the driver’s SRS frontal airbag at the time of
deployment as well as whether or not to activate the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag and, if activated, the deployment force of the
SRS frontal airbag at the time of deployment.
Your vehicle has warning labels on the driver’s and front passenger’s
sun visors beginning with the phrase “EVEN WITH ADVANCED AIR
BAGS” and a tag attached to the glove box lid beginning with the
phrase “Even with Advanced Air Bags”. Make sure that you carefully
read the instructions on the warning labels and tag.
Always wear your seat belt. The Toyota advanced frontal airbag system is a supplemental restraint system and must be used in combination with a seat belt. All occupants should wear a seat belt or be
seated in an appropriate child restraint system.
The driver’s SRS frontal airbag is stowed in the center portion of the
steering wheel. The front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag is stowed
near the top of the dashboard under an “SRS AIRBAG” mark.
In a moderate to severe frontal collision, the following components
deploy.
● SRS frontal airbag for driver
● SRS frontal airbag for front passenger
These components supplement the seat belts by reducing the impact
to the occupant’s head and chest.

96

1-7. Safety information

■ Driver’s SRS frontal airbag
The driver’s SRS frontal airbag uses a dual stage inflator. The inflator operates in different ways depending on the severity of impact.
Have the system inspected by your Toyota dealer immediately if the SRS
warning light illuminates.

■ Front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag
The front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag uses a dual stage inflator. The
inflator operates in different ways depending on the severity of impact.
The occupant classification system sensor is installed under the seat upholstery and monitors the physique and posture of the front passenger. Using
this information, the occupant classification system determines whether the
front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag should be deployed or not.
The occupant classification system may not inflate the front passenger’s
SRS frontal airbag even when the driver’s SRS frontal airbag deploys. This
is normal. In this case, although the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag
does not operate, the front passenger’s seat belt pretensioner operates with
the driver’s seat belt pretensioner. For details about the seat belt pretensioner, refer to “Seat belt pretensioners”. (P. 61)
Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may prevent the Toyota
advanced frontal airbag system from functioning correctly or cause the system to fail.
● Do not apply any strong impact to the front passenger’s seat.
● Do not spill liquid on the front passenger’s seat. If liquid is spilled, wipe it
off immediately.
● Do not remove or disassemble the front passenger’s seat.
● Do not install any accessory (such as an audio amplifier) other than a
genuine Toyota accessory under the front passenger’s seat.
● Do not place anything (shoes, umbrella, etc.) under the front passenger’s
seat.
● Do not place a magnet near the seat belt buckle.

97

Before driving

NOTE
The driver’s SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are not controlled by the Toyota advanced frontal airbag system.

1

1-7. Safety information

If the seat belt buckle switch and/or front passenger’s occupant classification
system have failed, the SRS warning light will illuminate. Have the system
inspected by your Toyota dealer immediately if the SRS warning light illuminates.
If your vehicle has sustained impact, this may affect the proper function of
the Toyota advanced frontal airbag system. Have your vehicle inspected at
your Toyota dealer. Do not use the front passenger’s seat while driving the
vehicle to your Toyota dealer.
NOTE
The front passenger’s SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are
not controlled by the Toyota advanced frontal airbag system.
■ Passenger’s frontal airbag ON and OFF indicators
P. 128
■ Occupant classification system
The occupant classification system sensor is installed under the seat upholstery and monitors the physique and posture of the front passenger. Using
this information, the occupant classification system determines whether the
front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag should be deployed or not.
If the front passenger’s seat cushion is wet, this may adversely affect the
ability of the system to determine deployment. If the seat cushion is wet, the
front passenger should stop sitting on the front passenger’s seat. Wipe off
liquid from the seat immediately, let the seat dry naturally and then check the
SRS warning light as follows.
● If the SRS warning light illuminates, keep the seat dry until the warning
light turns off. If the SRS warning light stays on even when the seat has
dried, do not allow anyone to sit on the front passenger’s seat and have
the system checked by your Toyota dealer.
● If the SRS warning light does not illuminate, check that the front passenger’s frontal airbag ON and OFF indicators work properly. If the indicators
do not work properly, do not allow anyone to sit on the front passenger’s
seat and have the system checked by your Toyota dealer.

98

1-7. Safety information

Also, if luggage or electronic devices are placed on the front passenger’s
seat, this may adversely affect the ability of the system to determine deployment. This may prevent the front passenger’s frontal airbag ON and OFF
indicators from working properly. Check that the indicators work properly.
When the OFF indicator turns off and the ON indicator illuminates, the front
passenger’s frontal airbag may deploy during a collision. Remove luggage
and electronic devices from the front passenger’s seat.

■ Conditions in which front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag is not activated
The front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag will not be activated when any of
the following conditions are met regarding the front passenger’s seat:
● The seat is empty.
● The seat is equipped with an appropriate child restraint system and an
infant is restrained in it.
● The occupant changed their posture after the occupant load is judged.
● The front passenger’s occupant classification system is malfunctioning.

WARNING
When the front passenger’s seat is occupied by an infant in an appropriate
child restraint system, observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may
interfere with the proper operation of the occupant classification system, activating the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag even though that seat is occupied by the infant in the child restraint system.
● Do not place any article (including electronic devices) on the seat other than
the infant in the child restraint system.
● Do not place more than one infant in the child restraint system.

99

Before driving

NOTE
This device complies with Part 18 of the FCC Rules. This device may cause
interference. If this device causes interference, consult the nearest Toyota
dealer. Also, for maintenance of the system, consult the nearest Toyota
dealer.

1

1-7. Safety information

■ If the front passenger’s frontal airbag ON indicator illuminates and the
OFF indicator turns off even when an infant or a small child is in a child
restraint system (including booster seat)
Turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position (vehicles without a smart key
system), or turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off (vehicles with a
smart key system) if the front passenger’s frontal airbag ON indicator illuminates and the OFF indicator turns off even when an infant or a small child is
in a child restraint system (including booster seat). Remove the child
restraint system from the seat. By referring to the child restraint manufacturer’s recommendations as well as the child restraint system installation
procedures in “Child restraint systems” (P. 137), correctly install the child
restraint system. Turn the engine switch to the “ON” position (vehicles without a smart key system), or turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system) and make sure that the
front passenger’s frontal airbag ON indicator turns off and the OFF indicator
illuminates.
If still the ON indicator remains illuminated while the OFF indicator turns off,
take the following actions.
● Ensure that no article is placed on the seat other than the child restraint
system and the child occupant.
● Ensure that the backward-forward position and seatback of front passenger’s seat are locked into place securely by moving the seat back and
forth.
If the ON indicator still remains illuminated while the OFF indicator turns off
after taking relevant corrective actions described above, relocate the child
restraint system to the rear seat and immediately contact your Toyota dealer
for an inspection.
NOTE
When a child who has outgrown a child restraint system or a small adult is
seated in the front passenger’s seat, the Toyota advanced frontal airbag system may or may not activate the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag
depending on the occupant’s seating posture. The child should always wear
the seat belt when sitting in the seat irrespective of whether the airbag is
deactivated or activated. If the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag is activated (the ON indicator remains illuminated while the OFF indicator turns
off), take the following actions.

100

1-7. Safety information

● Ensure that no article is placed on the seat other than the occupant.
If the ON indicator still remains illuminated while the OFF indicator turns off
despite the fact that the actions noted above have been taken, seat the
child/small adult in the rear seat and immediately contact your Toyota dealer
for an inspection. Even if the system has passed the dealer inspection, it is
recommended that on subsequent trips the child/small adult always take the
rear seat.

■ Conditions in which front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag is activated
The front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag will be activated for deployment
upon impact when any of the following conditions are met regarding the front
passenger’s seat.
● When the seat is occupied by an adult.
● When a certain item(s) (e.g. jug of water) is placed on the seat.

101

Before driving

Children who have outgrown a child restraint system should always wear the
seat belt irrespective of whether the airbag is deactivated or activated.

1

1-7. Safety information

■ If the passenger’s frontal airbag OFF indicator illuminates and the ON
indicator turns off even when the front passenger’s seat is occupied by
an adult
This can be caused by the adult incorrectly sitting in the front passenger’s
seat. Turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position (vehicles without a smart
key system), or turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off (vehicles with a
smart key system). Ask the front passenger to set the seatback to the
upright position, sit up straight in the center of the seat cushion, correctly
fasten the seat belt, position his/her legs out forward, and adjust the seat to
the rearmost position. Turn the engine switch to the “ON” position (vehicles
without a smart key system), or turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to
IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system). If the OFF indicator
remains illuminated while the ON indicator remains off, take the following
actions.
● Vehicles without a smart key system:
Turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
● Make sure that the front passenger does not use a blanket, seat cushion,
seat cover, seat heater or massager, etc.
● If wearing excessive layers of clothing, the front passenger should
remove any unnecessary items before sitting in the front passenger’s
seat, or should sit in a rear seat.
● Next, turn the engine switch to the “ON” position and wait 6 seconds to
allow the system to complete self-checking. Following the system check,
both indicators turn off for 2 seconds. Now, the ON indicator should illuminate while the OFF indicator remains off.
If the OFF indicator still remains illuminated while the ON indicator remains
off, ask the occupant to move to the rear seat and immediately contact your
Toyota dealer for an inspection.

102

1-7. Safety information

■ Operation
Driver's side
SRS AIRBAGs deploy as soon as a
collision occurs.

Passenger’s side
SRS AIRBAGs deploy as soon as a
collision occurs.
After deployment, SRS AIRBAGs start
to deflate immediately so that the
driver's vision is not obstructed.

103

1

Before driving

After deployment, SRS AIRBAGs start
to deflate immediately so that the
driver’s vision is not obstructed.

1-7. Safety information

The SRS airbag can function only when the engine switch is in the “ON”
position (vehicles without a smart key system) or when the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system).
The Toyota advanced frontal airbag system is designed to determine the
activation or deactivation condition of the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag depending on the characteristic of the item(s) or person on the front
passenger’s seat monitored by the front passenger’s occupant classification
system sensor. For this reason, only the driver’s SRS frontal airbag may
deploy in the event of a collision, but this does not mean failure of the system.
If the front sub sensors and the impact sensors in the airbag control module
detect a predetermined amount of force during a frontal collision, the control
module sends signals to the airbag module(s) (only driver’s module or both
driver’s and front passenger’s modules) instructing the module(s) to inflate
the SRS frontal airbag(s).
The driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbags use dual stage inflators. The two inflators of each airbag are triggered either sequentially or
simultaneously, depending on the severity of impact, in the case of the
driver’s SRS frontal airbag and depending on the severity of impact and the
characteristic of the item(s) or person on the seat in the case of the front
passenger’s SRS frontal airbag.
After deployment, the SRS airbag immediately starts to deflate so that the
driver’s vision is not obstructed. The time required from detecting impact to
the deflation of the SRS airbag after deployment is shorter than the blink of
an eye.
Both when only the driver’s SRS frontal airbag deploys and the driver’s and
front passenger’s SRS frontal airbags deploy, the driver’s and front passenger’s seat belt pretensioners operate at the same time.
Although it is highly unlikely that the SRS airbag would activate in a nonaccident situation, should it occur, the SRS airbag will deflate quickly, not
obscuring vision and will not interfere with the driver's ability to maintain control of the vehicle.
When the SRS airbag deploys, a sudden, fairly loud inflation noise will be
heard and some smoke will be released. These occurrences are a normal
result of the deployment. This smoke does not indicate a fire in the vehicle.

104

1-7. Safety information

SRS airbag deployment depends on the level of force experienced in the
passenger compartment during a collision. That level differs from one type of
collision to another, and it may have no bearing on the visible damage done
to the vehicle itself.
■ Example of accident in which the driver’s/driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s) will most likely deploy

A head-on collision against a thick concrete wall at a vehicle speeds of 12 to
19 mph (20 to 30 km/h) or higher activates only the driver’s SRS frontal airbag or both driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbags. The airbag(s)
will also be activated when the vehicle is exposed to a frontal impact similar
in fashion and magnitude to the collision described above.

105

1

Before driving

The driver’s SRS frontal airbag and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag are
designed to deploy in the event of an accident involving a moderate to
severe frontal collision. They are not designed to deploy in most lesser frontal impacts because the necessary protection can be achieved by the seat
belt alone. Also, they are not designed to deploy in most side or rear impacts
or in most roll-over accidents because deployment of only the driver’s SRS
frontal airbag or both driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbags
would not help the occupant in those situations. The driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbags are designed to function on a one-time-only
basis.

1-7. Safety information

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which it is possible that the
driver’s/driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s) will deploy
Only the driver’s SRS frontal airbag or
both driver’s and front passenger’s SRS
frontal airbags may be activated when the
vehicle sustains a hard impact in the
undercarriage area from the road surface
(such as when the vehicle plunges into a
deep ditch, is severely impacted or
knocked hard against an obstacle on the
road such as a curb).

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which deployment of the
driver’s/driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s) is unlikely
to occur
There are many types of collisions which might not necessarily require
deployment of driver’s/driver’s and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s).
In the event of accidents like those illustrated, the driver’s/driver’s and front
passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s) may not deploy depending on the level of
accident forces involved.
The vehicle strikes an object, such as a
telephone pole or sign pole.

106

1-7. Safety information

The vehicle slides under the load bed of a
truck.

1

The vehicle sustains an offset frontal collision.

The vehicle strikes an object that can
move or deform, such as a parked vehicle.

107

Before driving

The vehicle sustains an oblique offset
frontal impact.

1-7. Safety information

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which the driver’s/driver’s and
front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s) will basically not deploy
The driver’s and front passenger’s SRS
frontal airbags are designed not to deploy
in most cases if the vehicle is struck from
the side or from behind, or if it rolls onto
its side or roof, or if it is involved in a lowspeed frontal collision.

First impact
Second impact
In an accident where the vehicle is
impacted more than once, the driver’s
and/or front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag(s) will deploy only once on the first
impact.
Example: In the case of a double collision, first with another vehicle, then
against a concrete wall in immediate succession, once either or both of the driver’s
and front passenger’s SRS frontal airbags is/are activated on the first impact,
it/they will not be activated on the second
impact.

108

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ If the SRS airbags deploy
Do not touch the SRS airbag system components around the steering wheel
and dashboard with bare hands right after deployment. Doing so can cause
burns because the components can be very hot as a result of deployment.
NEVER INSTALL A REARWARD FACING CHILD SEAT IN THE FRONT
PASSENGER’S SEAT EVEN IF THE FRONT PASSENGER’S SRS FRONTAL AIRBAG IS DEACTIVATED. Be sure to install it in the REAR seat in a
correct manner. Also, it is strongly recommended that any forward facing
child seat or booster seat be installed in the REAR seat, and that even children who have outgrown a child restraint system be also seated in the
REAR seat. This is because children sitting in the front passenger’s seat
may be killed or severely injured should the front passenger’s SRS frontal
airbag deploy. REAR seats are the safest place for children.

109

Before driving

■ Child restraint precautions

1

1-7. Safety information

SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag
The SRS side airbag is stored in the door side of each front seat
seatback, which bears an “SRS AIRBAG” label.
In a moderate to severe side impact collision, the SRS side airbag on
the impacted side of the vehicle deploys between the occupant and
the door panel and supplements the seat belt by reducing the impact
on the occupant’s chest and waist. The SRS side airbag operates
only for front seat occupants.
The SRS curtain shield airbag on each side of the cabin is stored in
the roof side (between the front pillar and a point over the rear seat).
An “SRS AIRBAG” mark is located at the top of each front and rear
pillar.
In a moderate to severe side impact collision, the SRS curtain shield
airbag on the impacted side of the vehicle deploys between the occupant and the side window and supplements the seat belt by reducing
the impact on the occupant’s head.

110

1-7. Safety information

■ Operation

1

The driver’s and front passenger’s SRS side airbags and SRS curtain shield
airbags deploy independently of each other since each has its own impact
sensor. Therefore, they may not both deploy in the same accident. Also, the
SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deploys independently of the
driver’s and front passenger’s SRS front airbags in the steering wheel and
instrument panel.
A rollover sensor is also located inside the airbag control module.
An impact sensor, which senses impact force, is located in each of the left
and right center pillars, doors and rear wheel houses. Another impact sensor, which also senses impact force, is located under the center of the rear
seats.
If the impact sensor that is located under the center of the rear seats and
one of the center pillar impact sensors or door impact sensors together
sense an impact force above a predetermined level in a side collision, the
control module causes both the SRS side airbag and curtain shield airbag on
the impacted side to inflate regardless of whether the rear wheel house
impact sensor on the same side senses an impact.
If the impact sensor that is located under the center of the rear seats and
one of the rear wheel house impact sensors together sense an impact force
above a predetermined level, the control module causes only the SRS curtain shield airbag on the impacted side to inflate.
If the rollover sensor detects rollover of the vehicle, the control module
inflates the SRS curtain shield airbags. At this time, the driver's and front
passenger’s seat belt pretensioners also operate at the same time.
111

Before driving

The SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag can function only when
the engine switch is in the “ON” position (vehicles without a smart key system) or when the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode
(vehicles with a smart key system).

1-7. Safety information

After the deployment, the SRS side airbag immediately starts to deflate. The
time required from detection of an impact to deflation of an SRS side airbag
after deployment is shorter than the blink of an eye.
The SRS curtain shield airbag remains inflated for a while following deployment then slowly deflates.
The SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deploy even when no
one occupies the seat on the side on which an impact is applied.
When the SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deploy, a sudden,
fairly loud inflation noise will be heard and some smoke will be released.
These occurrences are a normal result of the deployment. This smoke does
not indicate a fire in the vehicle.
The SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are designed to deploy
in the event of an accident involving a moderate to severe side impact collision. They are not designed to deploy in most lesser side impact. Also, they
are not designed to deploy in most frontal or most rear impacts because
SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deployment would not help
the occupant in those situations.
The SRS curtain shield airbags are also designed to deploy when the vehicle is in an extremely inclined state such as during a rollover. They are not
designed to deploy in lesser inclined state.
Each SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are designed to function on a one-time-only basis.
SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deployment depend on the
level of force experienced in the passenger compartment during a side
impact collision. That level differs from one type of collision to another, and it
may have no bearing on the visible damage done to the vehicle itself.

112

1-7. Safety information

■ Example of the type of accident in which the SRS side airbag and SRS
curtain shield airbag will most likely deploy
A severe side impact near the front seat
activates the SRS side airbag and SRS
curtain shield airbag.

The vehicle rolls onto its side or the roof.

The side of the vehicle raises above a
certain threshold or the vehicle skids and
its tires hit a curbstone laterally.

113

Before driving

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which the SRS curtain shield airbag will most likely deploy

1

1-7. Safety information

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which the SRS side airbag and
SRS curtain shield airbag are unlikely to deploy
There are many types of collisions which might not necessarily require SRS
side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deployment. In the event of accidents like those illustrated, the SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag may not deploy depending on the level of accident forces involved.
The vehicle is involved in an oblique sideon impact.

The vehicle is involved in a side-on
impact in an area outside the vicinity of
the passenger compartment.

114

1-7. Safety information

The vehicle strikes a telephone pole or
similar object.

1

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which the SRS side airbag is
unlikely to deploy
There are many types of collisions which might not necessarily require SRS
side airbag deployment. In the event of an accident like those illustrated, the
SRS side airbag may not deploy depending on the level of accident force
involved.
The vehicle rolls onto its side or roof.

115

Before driving

The vehicle is involved in a side-on
impact from a motorcycle.

1-7. Safety information

■ Examples of the types of accidents in which the SRS side airbag and
SRS curtain shield airbag will basically not deploy
The vehicle is involved in frontal collision
with another vehicle (moving or stationary).

The vehicle is struck from behind.

The vehicle pitches end over end.

The SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are not designed to
deploy in most cases if the vehicle is involved in a frontal collision, is struck
from behind or pitches end over end. Examples of such accidents are illustrated.

116

1-7. Safety information

SRS curtain shield airbag
SRS side airbag
1
Second impact

First impact

Example: In the case of a double side impact collision, first with one vehicle
and immediately followed by another from the same direction, once the SRS
side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are activated on the first impact,
they will not be activated on the second.

117

Before driving

In an accident where the vehicle is struck from the side more than once, the
SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag deploy only once on the first
impact.

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ If the SRS airbags deploy
Do not touch the SRS side airbag system components around the front seat
seatback with bare hands right after deployment. Doing so can cause burns
because the components can be very hot as a result of deployment.
After deployment, do not touch any part of the SRS curtain shield airbag system (from the front pillar to the part of the roof side over the rear seat). Doing
so can cause burns because the components can be very hot as a result of
deployment.
■ SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag precautions
The SRS side airbag and SRS curtain shield airbag are designed only to be
a supplement to the primary protection provided by the seat belt. They do
not do away with the need to fasten seat belts. It is also important to wear
your seat belt to help avoid injuries that can result when an occupant is not
seated in a proper upright position.

118

1-7. Safety information

■ When to contact your Toyota dealer
In the following cases, the vehicle will require inspection and/or repair. Contact your Toyota dealer as soon as possible.
1

● Any of the SRS airbags have been inflated.

● A portion of a door is damaged or
deformed, or the vehicle was involved
in an accident that was not severe
enough to cause the SRS side airbags
and curtain shield airbags to inflate.

● The pad section of the steering wheel
or dashboard is scratched, cracked, or
otherwise damaged.

● The surface of the seats with the side
airbag is scratched, cracked, or otherwise damaged.

119

Before driving

● The front of the vehicle is damaged or
deformed, or was involved in an accident that was not severe enough to
cause the SRS airbags to inflate.

1-7. Safety information

● The portion of the front pillars, rear pillars or roof side rail garnishes (padding)
containing the curtain shield airbags
inside is scratched, cracked or otherwise damaged.

WARNING
■ SRS airbag precautions
Observe the following precautions regarding the SRS airbags.
Failure to do so may cause death or serious injury.
● The driver and all passengers in the vehicle must wear their seat belts
properly.
The SRS airbags are supplemental devices to be used with the seat belts.

120

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag precautions
● The SRS driver airbag deploys with considerable force, and can cause
death or serious injury especially if the driver is very close to the airbag.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) advises:

• Move your seat to the rear as far as you can while still reaching the
pedals comfortably.
• Slightly recline the back of the seat. Although vehicle designs vary,
many drivers can achieve the 10 in. (250 mm) distance, even with the
driver seat all the way forward, simply by reclining the back of the seat
somewhat. If reclining the back of your seat makes it hard to see the
road, raise yourself by using a firm, non-slippery cushion, or raise the
seat if your vehicle has that feature.
• If your steering wheel is adjustable, tilt it downward. This points the airbag toward your chest instead of your head and neck.
The seat should be adjusted as recommended by NHTSA above, while
still maintaining control of the foot pedals, steering wheel, and your view of
the instrument panel controls.
● The SRS front passenger airbag also deploys with considerable force, and
can cause death or serious injury especially if the front passenger is very
close to the airbag. The front passenger seat should be as far from the airbag as possible with the seatback adjusted, so the front passenger sits
upright.
● Improperly seated and/or restrained infants and children can be killed or
seriously injured by a deploying airbag. An infant or child who is too small
to use a seat belt should be properly secured using a child restraint system. Toyota strongly recommends that all infants and children be placed in
the rear seats of the vehicle and properly restrained. The rear seats are
safer for infants and children than the front passenger seat. (P. 137)

121

Before driving

Since the risk zone for the driver’s airbag is the first 2 - 3 in. (50 - 75 mm)
of inflation, placing yourself 10 in. (250 mm) from your driver airbag provides you with a clear margin of safety. This distance is measured from the
center of the steering wheel to your breastbone. If you sit less than 10 in.
(250 mm) away now, you can change your driving position in several
ways:

1

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag precautions
● Do not sit on the edge of the seat or
lean against the dashboard.

● Do not allow a child to stand in front of
the SRS front passenger airbag unit or
sit on the knees of a front passenger.
● Do not allow the front seat occupants to
hold items on their knees.

● Do not lean against the door, the roof
side rail or the front, side and rear pillars.

122

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag precautions
● Do not allow anyone to kneel on the
passenger seat toward the door or put
their head or hands outside the vehicle.

● Do not attach anything to areas such as
a door, windshield glass, side door
glass, rear quarter glass, front and rear
pillar or roof side rail.

● Do not use seat accessories which cover the parts where the SRS side
airbags inflate as they may interfere with inflation of the airbags. Such
accessories may prevent the side airbags from activating correctly, disable
the system or cause the side airbags to inflate accidentally, resulting in
death or serious injury.
● Do not strike or apply significant levels of force to the area of the SRS airbag components (P. 94).
Doing so can cause the SRS airbags to malfunction.

123

Before driving

● Do not attach anything to or lean anything against areas such as the dashboard or steering wheel pad.
These items can become projectiles
when SRS driver and front passenger
airbags deploy.

1

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS airbag precautions
● Do not touch any of the component parts immediately after the SRS airbags have deployed (inflated) as they may be hot.
● If breathing becomes difficult after the SRS airbag has deployed, open a
door or window to allow fresh air in, or leave the vehicle if it is safe to do
so. Wash off any residue as soon as possible to prevent skin irritation.
● If the areas where the SRS airbags are stored, such as the steering wheel
pad and front and rear pillar garnishes, are damaged or cracked, have
them replaced by your Toyota dealer.
■ Modification and disposal of SRS airbag system components
Do not dispose of your vehicle or perform any of the following modifications
without consulting your Toyota dealer.
The SRS airbags may malfunction or deploy (inflate) accidentally, causing
death or serious injury.
● Installation, removal, disassembly and repair of the SRS airbags.
● Repairs, modifications, removal or replacement of the steering wheel,
instrument panel, dashboard, seats or seat upholstery, front, side and rear
pillars or roof side rails.
● Repairs or modifications of the front fender, front bumper, or side of the
occupant compartment.
● Installation of a grille guard (bull bars, kangaroo bar, etc.), snow plows,
winches.
● Modifications to the vehicle's suspension system.
● Installation of electronic devices such as mobile two-way radios and CD
players.
● Modifications to your vehicle for a person with a physical disability.

124

1-7. Safety information

SRS airbag system monitors
Vehicles with a monochrome multiinformation display

The following components are monitored by the indicator:
● Front sub sensor (right-hand side)
● Front sub sensor (left-hand side)
● Airbag control module (including impact sensors and rollover sensors)
● Frontal airbag module (driver’s side)
● Frontal airbag module (front passenger’s side)
● Side airbag sensor (center pillar right-hand side)
● Side airbag sensor (center pillar left-hand side)
● Door impact sensor (right-hand side)
● Door impact sensor (left-hand side)
● Side airbag module (driver’s side)
125

1

Before driving

Vehicles with a color multi-information
display

A diagnostic system continually
monitors the readiness of the
SRS airbag system (including
front seat belt pretensioners)
while the vehicle is being driven.
The SRS warning light will show
normal system operation by illuminating for approximately 6
seconds when the engine switch
is turned to the “ON” position
(vehicles without a smart key
system), or the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch is turned to IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a
smart key system).

1-7. Safety information

● Side airbag module (front passenger’s side)
● Curtain shield airbag sensor (rear wheel house right-hand side)
● Curtain shield airbag sensor (rear wheel house left-hand side)
● Curtain shield airbag module (right-hand side)
● Curtain shield airbag module (left-hand side)
● Satellite safing sensor (under the center of the rear seats)
● Seat belt pretensioner (driver’s side)
● Seat belt pretensioner (front passenger’s side)
● Seat belt buckle switch (front passenger’s side)
● Front passenger’s occupant classification system sensor
● Front passenger’s occupant detection control module
● Front passenger’s frontal airbag ON and OFF indicator
● All related wiring

126

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ SRS warning light

● Flashing or flickering of the warning light
● No illumination of the warning light when the engine switch is first turned to
the “ON” position (vehicles without a smart key system), or the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch is turned to IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a
smart key system).
● Continuous illumination of the warning light
● Illumination of the warning light while driving

127

1

Before driving

If the warning light exhibits any of the following conditions, there may be a
malfunction in the seat belt pretensioners, SRS airbag system and/or front
passenger occupant classification system. Immediately take your vehicle to
your nearest Toyota dealer to have the system checked. Unless checked
and properly repaired, the seat belt pretensioners, SRS airbag and/or front
passenger occupant classification system will not operate properly in the
event of a collision, which may increase the risk of death or serious injury.

1-7. Safety information

Front passenger occupant classification system
Your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger occupant classification system. Using the sensors installed under the seat cover, the
system detects the conditions of the front passenger seat and activates or deactivates the frontal airbag for front passenger seat. The
occupant classification system may not inflate the front passenger’s
SRS frontal airbag even when the driver’s SRS frontal airbag
deploys. This is not a malfunction. If the seat belt buckle switch and/
or front passenger’s occupant classification system have failed, the
SRS warning light will illuminate. Have the system inspected by your
Toyota dealer immediately if the SRS warning light illuminates.
If your vehicle has sustained impact, this may affect the proper function of the Toyota advanced frontal airbag system. Immediately contact your Toyota dealer and have your vehicle inspected. Do not use
the front passenger seat while driving to your Toyota dealer.

SRS warning light
Front passenger’s seat belt reminder light
“AIR BAG OFF” indicator light
“AIR BAG ON” indicator light

128

1-7. Safety information

Condition and operation in the front passenger occupant
classification system*1
■ Adult*2
“AIR BAG ON” and “AIR BAG OFF”
indicator lights
Indicator/
SRS warning light
warning light
Front passenger’s seat belt reminder light
Front passenger airbag
Devices

Front side airbag*4

“AIR BAG
ON”
Off
Flashing*3

On

Front curtain shield airbag*4
Front passenger’s seat belt pretensioner*4

■ Child restraint system with infant*6, *7, *8
Indicator/
warning light

Devices

“AIR BAG ON” and “AIR BAG OFF”
indicator lights
SRS warning light
Front passenger’s seat belt reminder light
Front passenger airbag
Front side airbag

“AIR BAG
OFF”*9
Off
Off

*4

Front curtain shield airbag*4

On
*4

Front passenger’s seat belt pretensioner

129

1

Before driving

The front passenger’s frontal airbag ON and OFF indicators show
you the status of the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag. When
the engine switch is turned to “ON” position (vehicles without a
smart key system), or the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system), both the ON
and OFF indicators illuminate while the system is checked, after
which both indicators turn off.
After that, one of the indicators illuminates depending on the status
of the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag determined by the
Toyota advanced frontal airbag monitoring system.

1-7. Safety information

■ Child*5, *7

Indicator/
warning light

“AIR BAG ON” and “AIR BAG OFF”
indicator lights
SRS warning light
Front passenger’s seat belt reminder light
Front passenger airbag

Devices

“AIR BAG
OFF” or “AIR
BAG ON”*5
Off
Off or
flashing*3, *5
Off or on*5

Front side airbag*4
Front curtain shield airbag*4

On

Front passenger’s seat belt pretensioner*4

■ Unoccupied
Indicator/
warning light

Devices

“AIR BAG ON” and “AIR BAG OFF”
indicator lights
SRS warning light
Front passenger’s seat belt reminder light
Front passenger airbag
Front side airbag

“AIR BAG
OFF”
Off
Off

*4

Front curtain shield airbag*4

On

Front passenger’s seat belt pretensioner*4

■ There is a malfunction in the system
Indicator/
warning light

Devices

“AIR BAG ON” and “AIR BAG OFF”
indicator lights
SRS warning light
Front passenger’s seat belt reminder light
Front passenger airbag
Front side airbag*4
Front curtain shield airbag*4
Front passenger’s seat belt pretensioner*4

130

“AIR BAG
OFF”
On
Off
Off
On

1-7. Safety information

*1:

The occupant classification system does not operate during selfchecking.

*2:

The system judges a person of adult size as an adult. When a
smaller adult sits in the front passenger seat, the system may not
recognize him/her as an adult depending on his/her physique and
posture.
In the event the front passenger does not wear a seat belt.

*4:

The front passenger’s SRS side airbag, SRS curtain shield airbag
and seat belt pretensioner are not controlled by the occupant
classification system.

*5:

For some children, child in seat, child in booster seat or child in
convertible seat, the system may not recognize him/her as a
child. Factors which may affect this can be the physique or posture.
Children who have outgrown a child restraint system should
always wear the seat belt when sitting in the seat irrespective of
whether the airbag is deactivated or activated.

*6:

When a child restraint system is installed on the front passenger
seat, do not place any article on the seat other than the child
occupant and a child restraint system.
Failure to do so may prevent the front passenger occupant classification system from functioning correctly or cause the system to
fail.

*7:

Do not place more than one child on the front passenger seat.
Failure to do so may prevent the front passenger occupant classification system from functioning correctly.

*8:

Never install a rear-facing child restraint system on the front passenger seat. See the caution that follows regarding installation of
a child restraint system. (P. 141)

*9:

In case the indicator is not illuminated, consult this manual on
how to installing the child restraint system properly. (P. 141)
131

Before driving

*3:

1

1-7. Safety information

If the passenger’s frontal airbag OFF indicator illuminates and the ON indicator
turns off even when the front passenger’s seat is occupied by an adult
This can be caused by an adult incorrectly sitting in the front passenger’s seat. Perform the following.
STEP 1 Vehicles without a smart key system:

The engine switch is turned to the “LOCK” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
STEP 2 Ask the front passenger to set the seatback to the upright

position, sit up straight in the center of the seat cushion, correctly wear the seat belt, position his/her legs out forward, and
adjust the seat to the rearmost position.
STEP 3 Vehicles without a smart key system:

The engine switch is turned to the “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to IGNITION ON
mode.
STEP 4 If the OFF indicator remains illuminated while the ON indicator

remains off, perform the following.
• Vehicles without a smart key system:
The engine switch is turned to the “LOCK” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
• Make sure that the front passenger is not using a blanket,
seat cushion, seat cover or seat heater, etc.
• If wearing excessive layers of clothing, the front passenger
should remove any unnecessary items before sitting in the
front passenger seat, or should sit in a rear seat.

132

1-7. Safety information

STEP 5 The engine switch is turned to the “ON” position (vehicles

133

1

Before driving

without a smart key system), or the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch to IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system). After the self-check is performed, the ON indicator
should illuminate while the OFF indicator remains off. If the
OFF indicator still remains illuminated while the ON indicator
remains off, ask the occupant to move to the rear seat and
immediately contact your Toyota dealer for an inspection.

1-7. Safety information

If the front passenger’s frontal airbag ON indicator illuminates and the OFF indicator turns off
even when an infant or a small child is in a child restraint system (including booster seat)
This can be caused by the child restraint system being installed incorrectly. Perform the following.
STEP 1 Vehicles without a smart key system:

The engine switch is turned to the “LOCK” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
STEP 2 Remove the child restraint system from the seat. By referring

to the child restraint manufacturer’s recommendations as well
as the child restraint system installation procedure in “child
restraint system”, correctly reinstall the child restraint system.
STEP 3 Vehicles without a smart key system:

The engine switch is turned to the “ON” position and make
sure that the front passenger’s frontal airbag ON indicator
turns off and the OFF indicator illuminates.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to IGNITION ON
mode and make sure that the front passenger’s frontal airbag
ON indicator turns off and the OFF indicator illuminates.
STEP 4 If the ON indicator still remains illuminated while the OFF indi-

cator turns off, perform the following.
• Ensure that no article is placed on the seat other than the
child restraint system and the child occupant.
• Ensure that the backward-forward position and seatback of
front passenger seat are locked into place securely by moving the seat back and forth.
STEP 5 If the ON indicator still remains illuminated while the OFF indi-

cator turns off after taking the relevant corrective actions
described above, relocate the child restraint system to the
rear seat and immediately contact your Toyota dealer for an
inspection.
134

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ Front passenger occupant classification system precautions

● Wear the seat belt properly.
● Do not apply excessive force to the seat.
● Do not put sharp object(s) on the seat or pierce the seat upholstery.
● Do not put objects under the front passenger seat.
● Do not use a seat accessory, such as a cushion or seat cover, that covers
the seat cushion surface.
● Do not spill liquid on the front passenger seat. If liquid is spilled, wipe it off
immediately and dry the seat. If the airbag warning light illuminates, dry
the seat until the warning light turns off. If the airbag warning light stays on
even when the seat has dried, do not allow anyone to sit on the front passenger seat and have the system checked by your Toyota dealer. If the airbag warning light does not illuminate, check that the airbag ON/OFF
indicator light works properly. If the indicator light does not work properly,
do not allow anyone to sit in the front passenger’s seat and have the system inspected by your Toyota dealer.
● Do not remove or disassemble the front passenger seat. Also, do not
replace or modify the seat upholstery or foam inside the seat.
● Do not install any accessory (such as an audio amplifier) other than a genuine Toyota accessory under the front passenger’s seat.
● Do not place a magnetized items near the seat belt buckle.

135

1

Before driving

Observe the following precautions regarding front passenger occupant classification system.
Failure to do so may cause the occupant classification system to not function
correctly, resulting in death or serious injury.

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ Front passenger occupant classification system precautions
● Never install a rearward facing child seat in the front passenger’s seat
even if the front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag is deactivated. Be sure to
install it in the rear seat in a correct manner. Also, it is strongly recommended that any forward facing child seat or booster seat be installed in
the rear seat, and that even children who have outgrown a child restraint
system be also seated in the rear seat. This is because children sitting in
the front passenger’s seat may be killed or severely injured should the
front passenger’s SRS frontal airbag deploy. Toyota believes that the rear
seats are the safest place for children
● If luggage or electronic devices are placed on the front passenger seat,
the OFF indicator may turn off and the ON indicator may illuminate. If this
occurs, the front passenger’s airbag may deploy during a collision. If this is
not desirable, remove the luggage or electronic devices from the front passenger seat.
● Modifications for persons with disabilities that may affect the front passenger occupant classification system. (U.S. only) Removing, replacing or
modifying any parts of the front seats, seat belts, front bumper, front side
frame, instrument panel, combination meter, steering wheel, steering column, tires, suspension or floor panel can affect the operation of the Toyota
front passenger occupant classification system.

136

1-7. Safety information

Child restraint systems
A child restraint system for a small child or baby must itself be properly restrained on the seat with the LATCH anchors or the lap portion
of the lap/shoulder belt.
The laws of all 50 states of the U.S.A. and Canada now require the
use of child restraint systems.

Studies have shown that installing a child restraint on a rear seat is
much safer than installing one to the front passenger seat.
● Choose a child restraint system that suits your vehicle and is
appropriate to the age and size of the child.
● For installation details, follow the instructions provided with the
child restraint system.
General installation instructions are provided in this manual.
(P. 141)
Types of child restraints
Child restraint systems are classified into the following 3 types
according to the age and size of the child.
Rear facing  Infant seat/convertible seat

137

Before driving

Points to remember

1

1-7. Safety information

Forward facing  Convertible seat

Booster seat

■ Selecting an appropriate child restraint system
● Use a child restraint system appropriate for the child until the child
becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle’s seat belt.
● If a child is too large for a child restraint system, sit the child on a rear
seat and use the vehicle's seat belt. (P. 60)

138

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ Child restraint precautions

● Toyota strongly urges the use of a proper child restraint system that conforms to the size of the child, installed on the rear seat. According to accident statistics, the child is safer when properly restrained in the rear seat
than in the front seat.
● Never install a rear-facing child restraint system on the front passenger
seat even if the “AIR BAG OFF” indicator light is illuminated. In the event
of an accident, the force of the rapid inflation of the front passenger airbag
can cause death or serious injury to the child if the rear-facing child
restraint system is installed on the front passenger seat.
● A forward-facing child restraint system may be installed on the front passenger seat only when it is unavoidable. A child restraint system that
requires a top tether strap should not be used in the front passenger seat
since there is no top tether strap anchor for the front passenger seat.
Adjust the seatback as upright as possible and always move the seat as
far back as possible even if the “AIR BAG OFF” indicator light is illuminated, because the front passenger airbag could inflate with considerable
speed and force. Otherwise, the child may be killed or seriously injured.

139

1

Before driving

● For effective protection in automobile accidents and sudden stops, a child
must be properly restrained, using a seat belt or child restraint system
depending on the age and size of the child. Holding a child in your arms is
not a substitute for a child restraint system. In an accident, the child can be
crushed against the windshield, or between you and the vehicle's interior.

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ Child restraint precautions
● Do not allow the child to lean his/her head or any part of his/her body
against the door or the area of the seat, front and rear pillars or roof side
rails from which the SRS side airbags or SRS curtain shield airbags deploy
even if the child is seated in the child restraint system. It is dangerous if
the SRS side airbags and curtain shield airbags inflate, and the impact
could cause death or serious injury to the child.
● Make sure you have complied with all installation instructions provided by
the child restraint manufacturer and that the system is properly secured. If
it is not secured properly, it may cause death or serious injury to the child
in the event of a sudden stop, sudden swerve or an accident.
■ When children are in the vehicle
Do not allow children to play with the seat belt. If the seat belt becomes
twisted around a child’s neck, it may lead to choking or other serious injuries
that could result in death.
If this occurs and the buckle cannot be unfastened, scissors should be used
to cut the belt.
■ When the child restraint system is not in use
● Keep the child restraint system properly secured on the seat even if it is
not in use. Do not store the restraint unsecured in the passenger compartment.
● If it is necessary to detach the child restraint system, remove it from the
vehicle or store it securely in the trunk. This will prevent it from injuring
passengers in the event of a sudden stop, sudden swerve or accident.

140

1-7. Safety information

Installing child restraints
Follow the child restraint system manufacturer's instructions. Firmly
secure child restraints to the rear seats using the LATCH anchors or
a seat belt. Attach the top tether strap when installing a child
restraint.

Child restraint LATCH anchors
LATCH anchors are provided
for both rear seats. (Buttons
displaying the location of the
anchors are attached to the
seats.)

Seat belts equipped with a
child restraint locking mechanism (ALR/ELR belts except
driver’s seat belt) (P. 60)

Anchor bracket (for top tether
strap)
Anchor brackets are provided
for both rear seats.

141

Before driving

The lap/shoulder belt can be used if your child restraint system is
not compatible with the LATCH (Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children) system.

1

1-7. Safety information

Installation with LATCH system
Type A
STEP 1 Pull the cover.
STEP 2 Latch

the hooks of the
lower straps onto the
LATCH anchors.

STEP 3 If the child restraint has a

top tether strap, the top
tether strap should be
latched onto the top
tether strap anchors.
For owners in Canada:
The symbol on a child restraint
system indicates the presence of
a lower connector system.
Canada only

142

1-7. Safety information

Type B
STEP 1 Pull the cover.
STEP 2 Latch

the buckles onto
the LATCH anchors.

STEP 3 If the child restraint has a

For owners in Canada:
The symbol on a child restraint
system indicates the presence of
a lower connector system.

Canada only

143

Before driving

top tether strap, the top
tether strap should be
latched onto the top
tether strap anchors.

1

1-7. Safety information

Installing child restraints using a seat belt (child restraint lock
function belt)
■ Rear facing Infant seat/convertible seat
STEP 1

STEP 2

STEP 3

144

Place the child restraint system
on the rear seat facing the rear
of the vehicle.

Run the seat belt through the
child restraint system and insert
the plate into the buckle. Make
sure that the belt is not twisted.

Fully extend the shoulder belt
and allow it to retract to put it in
lock mode. In lock mode, the belt
cannot be extended.

1-7. Safety information

STEP 4

While pushing the child restraint
system down into the rear seat,
allow the shoulder belt to retract
until the child restraint system is
securely in place.

■ Forward facing Convertible seat
STEP 1

STEP 2

STEP 3

Place the child restraint system
on the seat facing the front of the
vehicle.

Run the seat belt through the
child restraint system and insert
the plate into the buckle. Make
sure that the belt is not twisted.

Fully extend the shoulder belt
and allow it to retract to put it in
lock mode. In lock mode, the belt
cannot be extended.

145

Before driving

After the shoulder belt has
retracted to a point where there is
no slack in the belt, pull the belt to
check that it cannot be extended.

1

1-7. Safety information

While pushing the child restraint
system into the rear seat, allow
the shoulder belt to retract until
the child restraint system is
securely in place.

STEP 4

After the shoulder belt has
retracted to a point where there is
no slack in the belt, pull the belt to
check that it cannot be extended.
STEP 5 If the child restraint has a top tether strap, the top tether strap

should be latched onto the top tether strap anchor. (P. 147)
■ Booster seat
STEP 1

STEP 2

Place the child restraint system
on the seat facing the front of the
vehicle.

Sit the child in the child restraint
system. Fit the seat belt to the
child restraint system and insert
the plate into the buckle. Make
sure that the belt is not twisted.
Check that the shoulder belt is
correctly positioned over the
child's shoulder and that the lap
belt is as low as possible.
(P. 60)

146

1-7. Safety information

Removing a child restraint installed with a seat belt
Push the buckle release button
and fully retract the seat belt.

1

Before driving

Child restraint systems with a top tether strap
STEP 1 Secure the child restraint using a seat belt or the LATCH

anchors.
STEP 2

Remove
cover.

the

anchor

bracket

Store the removed cover in a safe
place.

147

1-7. Safety information

STEP 3

Latch the hook onto the anchor
bracket and tighten the top tether
strap.
Make sure the top tether strap is
securely latched.

■ When installing a child restraint system with LATCH anchors and a top
tether strap
Depending on the child restraint system's size and shape, if the child
restraint system is installed to the LATCH anchors first, it may not be possible to attach the top tether strap to the anchor bracket.
In that case, first temporarily attach the top tether strap to the anchor
bracket, install the child restraint system using the lower anchors and then
tighten the top tether strap.
■ Laws and regulations pertaining to anchorages
The LATCH system conforms to FMVSS225 or CMVSS210.2.
Child restraint systems conforming to FMVSS213 or CMVSS213 specifications can be used.
This vehicle is designed to conform to the SAE J1819.

148

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ When installing a booster seat
To prevent the belt from going into ALR lock mode, do not fully extend the
shoulder belt. ALR mode causes the belt to tighten only. This could cause
injury or discomfort to the child. (P. 62)
Follow the directions given in the child restraint system installation manual
and fix the child restraint system securely in place.
If the child restraint system is not correctly fixed in place, the child or other
passengers may be injured or even killed in the event of sudden braking,
sudden swerving or an accident.
● If the driver’s seat interferes with the
child restraint system and prevents it
from being attached correctly, attach
the child restraint system to the righthand rear seat.
● Adjust the front passenger seat so that
it does not interfere with the child
restraint system.
● Only put a forward facing child restraint
system on the front seat when unavoidable. When installing a forward facing
child restraint system on the front passenger seat, move the seat as far back
as possible even if the “AIR BAG OFF”
indicator light is illuminated. Failure to
do so may result in death or serious
injury if the airbags deploy (inflate).

149

Before driving

■ When installing a child restraint system

1

1-7. Safety information

WARNING
■ When installing a child restraint system
● When a booster seat is installed, always ensure that the shoulder belt is
positioned across the center of the child's shoulder. The belt should be
kept away from the child's neck, but not so that it could fall off the child's
shoulder. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury in the event
of sudden braking, sudden swerving or an accident.
● Ensure that the belt and plate are securely locked and the seat belt is not
twisted.
● Shake the child restraint system left and right, and forward and backward
to ensure that it has been securely installed.
● After securing a child restraint system, never adjust the seat.
● Follow all installation instructions provided by the child restraint system
manufacturer.
■ To correctly attach a child restraint system to the anchors
When using the LATCH anchors, be sure that there are no foreign objects
around the anchors and that the seat belt is not caught behind the child
restraint. Make sure the child restraint system is securely attached, or it may
cause death or serious injury to the child or other passengers in the event of
sudden braking, sudden swerve or an accident.

150

When driving

2-1. Driving procedures
Driving the vehicle............ 152
Engine (ignition) switch
(vehicles with a smart
key system).................... 166
Engine (ignition) switch
(vehicles without a
smart key system).......... 175
Automatic transmission.... 178
Manual Transmission....... 185
Turn signal lever .............. 188
Parking brake................... 189
Horn ................................. 190
2-2. Instrument cluster
Gauges and meters ......... 191
Indicators and warning
lights .............................. 194
Multi-information display
(monochrome display) ... 200
Multi-information display
(color display) ................ 207

2
2-3. Operating the lights and
windshield wipers
Headlight switch............... 222
Fog light switch ................ 228
Windshield wipers and
washer ........................... 229
2-4. Using other driving
systems
Cruise control................... 232
Rear view monitor
system ........................... 237
Driving assist systems ..... 245
Hill-start assist control...... 252
2-5. Driving information
Cargo and luggage .......... 256
Vehicle load limits ............ 260
Winter driving tips ............ 261
Trailer towing ................... 265
Dinghy towing .................. 266

151

2-1. Driving procedures

Driving the vehicle
The following procedures should be observed to ensure safe driving:

■ Starting the engine
P. 166, 175
■ Driving
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 With the brake pedal depressed, shift the shift lever to D.

(P. 178)
STEP 2 Release the parking brake. (P. 189)
STEP 3 Gradually release the brake pedal and gently depress the

accelerator pedal to accelerate the vehicle.
Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 While depressing the clutch pedal, shift the shift lever to 1.

(P. 185)
STEP 2 Release the parking brake. (P. 189)
STEP 3 Gradually release the clutch pedal. At the same time, gently

depress the accelerator pedal to accelerate the vehicle.
■ Stopping
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 With the shift lever in D, depress the brake pedal.
STEP 2 If necessary, set the parking brake.

If the vehicle is to be stopped for an extended period of time, shift
the shift lever to P or N. (P. 178)

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 While

depressing the clutch pedal, depress the brake

pedal.
STEP 2 If necessary, set the parking brake.

If the vehicle is to be stopped for an extended period of time, shift
the shift lever to N. (P. 185)

152

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Parking the vehicle
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 With the shift lever in D, depress the brake pedal.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to P. (P. 178)
STEP 3 Set the parking brake. (P. 189)
STEP 4 Vehicles without a smart key system:

Turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position to stop the
engine.

STEP 5 Lock the door, making sure that you have the key on your

person.
If parking on a hill, block the wheels as needed.

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 While

depressing the clutch pedal, depress the brake

pedal.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to N. (P. 185)
STEP 3 Set the parking brake. (P. 189)
STEP 4 Vehicles without a smart key system:

Turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position to stop the
engine.
Vehicles with a smart key system:
Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to stop the
engine.
STEP 5 Lock the door, making sure that you have the key on your

person.
If parking on a hill, shift the shift lever to 1 or R and block the
wheels as needed.

153

When driving

Vehicles with a smart key system:
Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to stop the
engine.

2

2-1. Driving procedures

Starting off on a steep uphill
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 Make sure that the parking brake is set and shift the shift lever

to D.
STEP 2 Gently depress the accelerator pedal.
STEP 3 Release the parking brake.

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 With the parking brake firmly set and the clutch pedal fully

depressed, shift the shift lever to 1.
STEP 2 Lightly depress the accelerator pedal at the same time as

gradually releasing the clutch pedal.
STEP 3 Release the parking brake.

■ When starting off on an uphill
When enabled, the hill-start assist control can operate. (P. 252)
■ Driving in the rain
● Drive carefully when it is raining, because visibility will be reduced, the
windows may become fogged-up, and the road will be slippery.
● Drive carefully when it starts to rain, because the road surface will be
especially slippery.
● Refrain from high speeds when driving on an expressway in the rain,
because there may be a layer of water between the tires and the road
surface, preventing the steering and brakes from operating properly.

154

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Engine speed while driving (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
In the following conditions, the engine speed may become high while driving.
This is due to automatic up-shifting control or down-shifting implementation
to meet driving conditions. It does not indicate sudden acceleration.
● The vehicle is judged to be driving uphill or downhill
● When the accelerator pedal is released
● When driving on curves
● When the brake pedal is firmly depressed

2

■ New vehicle break-in driving (the first 1000 miles [1600 km])

● Do not race the engine. And do not allow the engine speed to exceed
4000 rpm except in an emergency.
● Do not drive at one constant engine or vehicle speed for a long time,
either fast or slow.
● Avoid starting suddenly and rapid acceleration, except in an emergency.
● Avoid hard braking, except in an emergency.
The same break-in procedures should be applied to an overhauled
engine, newly mounted engine or when brake pads or brake linings are
replaced with new ones.
■ High friction brake pads (if equipped)
The brake pads and discs are designed for use under high load conditions.
Therefore, brake noise may be generated depending on the vehicle speed,
braking force and vehicle environment (temperature, humidity, etc.).
■ Drum-in-disc type parking brake system
Your vehicle has a drum-in-disc type parking brake system. This type of
brake system needs bedding-down of the brake shoes periodically or whenever the parking brake shoes and/or drum are replaced. Have your Toyota
dealer perform the bedding down.

155

When driving

The performance and long life of your vehicle are dependent on how you
handle and care for your vehicle while it is new. Follow these instructions
during the first 1000 miles (1600 km):

2-1. Driving procedures

■ After the engine starts
In order to secure a rich exhaust sound when starting the vehicle and environmental performance, air intake and exhaust sounds become loud and
vibrations may increase for a little while after the engine starts. This is not a
malfunction.
■ Operating your vehicle in a foreign country
Comply with the relevant vehicle registration laws and confirm the availability
of the correct fuel. (P. 461)
■ REV indicator
When the set engine speed is reached
the REV indicator comes on and a buzzer
sounds to inform the driver.
(P. 204, 217)
(When the engine speed enters the red
zone, the REV indicator flashes regardless of settings.)

WARNING
■ When starting the vehicle (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
● Always keep your foot on the brake pedal while stopped with the engine
running. This prevents the vehicle from creeping.
● Firmly depress the brake pedal because engine speed may increase
immediately after starting the engine, when the air conditioning system is
operating, when turning the steering wheel, etc., thereby causing creeping
to become stronger. Apply the parking brake as necessary.

156

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When driving the vehicle
● Do not drive if you are unfamiliar with the location of the brake and accelerator pedals to avoid depressing the wrong pedal.

● On vehicles with an automatic transmission, do not let the vehicle roll
backward while the shift lever is in a driving position, or roll forward while
the shift lever is in R.
Doing so may cause the engine to stall or lead to poor brake and steering
performance, resulting in an accident or damage to the vehicle.
● If the smell of exhaust is noticed inside the vehicle, open the windows and
check that the trunk is closed. Large amounts of exhaust in the vehicle can
cause driver drowsiness and an accident, resulting in death or a serious
health hazard. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer immediately.
● On vehicles with a manual transmission, do not shift the shift lever to R
while the vehicle is moving forward.
Doing so can damage the transmission and may result in a loss of vehicle
control.
● Do not shift the shift lever to a driving position while the vehicle is moving
backward.
Doing so can damage the transmission and may result in a loss of vehicle
control.

157

2

When driving

• Accidentally depressing the accelerator pedal instead of the brake
pedal will result in sudden acceleration that may lead to an accident
that could result in death or serious injury.
• When backing up, you may twist your body around, leading to a difficulty in operating the pedals. Make sure to operate the pedals properly.
• Make sure to keep a correct driving posture even when moving the
vehicle only slightly. This allows you to depress the brake and accelerator pedals properly.
• Depress the brake pedal using your right foot. Depressing the brake
pedal using your left foot may delay response in an emergency, resulting in an accident.
● Do not drive the vehicle over or stop the vehicle near flammable materials.
The exhaust system and exhaust gases can be extremely hot. These hot
parts may cause a fire if there is any flammable material nearby.

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
● On vehicles with a manual transmission, do not release the clutch pedal
too quickly. Doing so may propel the vehicle forward, possibly causing an
accident.
● Moving the shift lever to N while the vehicle is moving will disengage the
engine from the transmission. Engine braking is not available when N is
selected.
● During normal driving, do not turn off the engine. Turning the engine off
while driving will not cause loss of steering or braking control, but the
power assist to these systems will be lost. This will make it more difficult to
steer and brake, so you should pull over and stop the vehicle as soon as it
is safe to do so.
However, in the event of an emergency, such as if it becomes impossible
to stop the vehicle in the normal way: P. 455
● Use engine braking (downshift) to maintain a safe speed when driving
down a steep hill.
Using the brakes continuously may cause the brakes to overheat and lose
effectiveness. (P. 179, 185)
● Do not adjust the position of the steering wheel, the seat, or the inside or
outside rear view mirrors while driving.
Doing so may result in a loss of vehicle control that can cause accidents,
resulting in death or serious injury.
● Always check that all passengers' arms, heads or other parts of their body
are not outside the vehicle, as this may result in death or serious injury.
● Do not drive in excess of the speed limit. Even if the legal speed limit permits it, do not drive over 85 mph (140 km/h) unless your vehicle has highspeed capability tires. Driving over 85 mph (140 km/h) may result in tire
failure, loss of control and possible injury. Be sure to consult a tire dealer
to determine whether the tires on your vehicle are high-speed capability
tires or not before driving at such speeds.

158

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When driving on slippery road surfaces
● Sudden braking, acceleration and steering may cause tire slippage and
reduce your ability to control the vehicle, resulting in an accident.
● Sudden acceleration, engine braking due to shifting, or changes in engine
speed could cause the vehicle to skid, resulting in an accident.

■ When shifting the shift lever
● On vehicles with an automatic transmission, be careful not to shift the shift
lever with the accelerator pedal depressed. Shifting the shift lever to a
gear other than P or N may lead to unexpected rapid acceleration of the
vehicle that may cause an accident and result in death or serious injury.
● Do not place items in the shift lever's surrounding area. It may cause incorrect operation.
● If the shift boot is pulled out during cleaning, return it to its previous position. If the shift boot is left pulled out, the shift lever may become difficult to
operate.
■ If you hear a squealing or scraping noise (brake pad wear limit indicators)
Have your Toyota dealer check and replace the brake pads as soon as possible.
Rotor damage may result if the pads are not replaced when needed.
It is dangerous to drive the vehicle when the wear limits of the brake pads
and/or those of the brake discs are exceeded.

159

2

When driving

● After driving through a puddle, lightly depress the brake pedal to make
sure that the brakes are functioning properly. Wet brake pads may prevent
the brakes from functioning properly. If the brakes on only one side are wet
and not functioning properly, steering control may be affected, resulting in
an accident.

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When the vehicle is stopped
● Do not race the engine.
If the vehicle is in any gear other than P (vehicles with an automatic transmission only) or N, the vehicle may accelerate suddenly and unexpectedly,
causing an accident.
● Do not leave the vehicle with the engine running for a long time.
If such a situation cannot be avoided, park the vehicle in an open space
and check that exhaust fumes do not enter the vehicle interior.
● On vehicles with an automatic transmission, in order to prevent accidents
due to the vehicle rolling away, always keep depressing the brake pedal
while the engine is running, and apply the parking brake as necessary.
● If the vehicle is stopped on an incline, in order to prevent accidents caused
by the vehicle rolling forward or backward, always depress the brake pedal
and securely apply the parking brake as needed.
● Avoid revving or racing the engine.
Running the engine at high speed while the vehicle is stopped may cause
the exhaust system to overheat, which could result in a fire if combustible
material is nearby.

160

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When the vehicle is parked
● Do not leave glasses, cigarette lighters, spray cans, or soft drink cans in
the vehicle when it is in the sun.
Doing so may result in the following:

● Do not attach suction cups to the windshield or windows. Do not place
containers such as air fresheners on the instrument panel or dashboard.
Suction cups or containers may act as lenses, causing a fire in the vehicle.
● Do not leave a door or window open if the curved glass is coated with a
metallized film such as a silver-colored one. Reflected sunlight may cause
the glass to act as a lens, causing a fire.
● Always apply the parking brake, shift the shift lever to P (vehicles with an
automatic transmission only), stop the engine and lock the vehicle.
Do not leave the vehicle unattended while the engine is running.
● Do not touch the exhaust pipe while the engine is running or immediately
after turning the engine off.
Doing so may cause burns.
● Do not leave the engine running in an area with snow build-up, or where it
is snowing. If snowbanks build up around the vehicle while the engine is
running, exhaust gases may collect and enter the vehicle. This may lead
to death or a serious health hazard.

161

2

When driving

• Gas may leak from a cigarette lighter or spray can, and may lead to a
fire.
• The temperature inside the vehicle may cause the plastic lenses and
plastic material of glasses to deform or crack.
• Soft drink cans may fracture, causing the contents to spray over the
interior of the vehicle, and may also cause a short circuit in the vehicle's electrical components.
● Do not leave cigarette lighters in the vehicle. If a cigarette lighter is in a
place such as the glove box or on the floor, it may be lit accidentally when
luggage is loaded or the seat is adjusted, causing a fire.

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ Exhaust gases
Exhaust gases include harmful carbon monoxide (CO), which is colorless
and odorless. Inhaling exhaust gases may lead to death or a serious health
hazard.
● If the vehicle is in a poorly ventilated area, stop the engine. In a closed
area, such as a garage, exhaust gases may collect and enter the vehicle.
This may lead to death or a serious health hazard.
● The exhaust system should be checked occasionally. If there is a hole or
crack caused by corrosion, damage to a joint or abnormal exhaust noise,
be sure to have the vehicle inspected and repaired by your Toyota dealer.
Failure to do so may allow exhaust gases to enter the vehicle, resulting in
death or a serious health hazard.
■ When taking a nap in the vehicle
Always turn the engine off. Otherwise, you may accidentally move the shift
lever or depress the accelerator pedal, this could cause an accident or fire
due to engine overheating. Additionally, if the vehicle is parked in a poorly
ventilated area, exhaust gases may collect and enter the vehicle, leading to
death or a serious health hazard.

162

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When braking
● When the brakes are wet, drive more cautiously.
Braking distance increases when the brakes are wet, and this may cause
one side of the vehicle to brake differently than the other side. Also, the
parking brake may not securely hold the vehicle.

● Do not pump the brake pedal if the engine stalls.
Each push on the brake pedal uses up the reserve for the power-assisted
brakes.
● The brake system consists of 2 individual hydraulic systems; if one of the
systems fails, the other will still operate. In this case, the brake pedal
should be depressed more firmly than usual and the braking distance will
increase.
Have your brakes fixed immediately.

163

2

When driving

● If the brake booster device does not operate, do not follow other vehicles
closely and avoid hills or sharp turns that require braking.
In this case, braking is still possible, but the brake pedal should be
depressed more firmly than usual. Also, the braking distance will increase.
Have your brakes fixed immediately.

2-1. Driving procedures

NOTICE
■ Pre-driving check
Trapping small animals in the cooling fan and belts of the engine may result
in a malfunction. Check that no small animal enters the engine compartment
and under the vehicle before starting the engine.
■ When driving the vehicle
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
● Do not depress the accelerator and brake pedals at the same time during
driving, as this may restrain driving torque.
● Do not use the accelerator pedal or depress the accelerator and brake
pedals at the same time to hold the vehicle on a hill.
Vehicles with a manual transmission
● Do not depress the accelerator and brake pedals at the same time during
driving, as this may restrain driving torque.
● Do not shift gears unless the clutch pedal is fully depressed. After shifting,
do not release the clutch pedal abruptly. Doing so may damage the clutch,
transmission and gears.
● Observe the following to prevent the clutch from being damaged.
• Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving.
Doing so may cause clutch trouble.
• Do not use any gear other than the 1st gear when starting off and moving forward.
Doing so may damage the clutch.
• Do not use the clutch to hold the vehicle when stopping on an uphill
grade.
Doing so may damage the clutch.
● Do not shift the shift lever to R when the vehicle is still moving. Doing so
may damage the clutch, transmission and gears.
● Do not release the clutch pedal too quickly. Doing so may damage the
transmission.
■ When parking the vehicle (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
Always shift the shift lever to P. Failure to do so may cause the vehicle to
move or the vehicle may accelerate suddenly if the accelerator pedal is accidentally depressed.

164

2-1. Driving procedures

NOTICE
■ Avoiding damage to vehicle parts
● Do not turn the steering wheel fully in either direction and hold it there for
an extended period of time.
Doing so may damage the power steering motor.
● When driving over bumps in the road, drive as slowly as possible to avoid
damaging the wheels, underside of the vehicle, etc.

■ If you get a flat tire while driving
A flat or damaged tire may cause the following situations. Hold the steering
wheel firmly and gradually depress the brake pedal to slow down the vehicle.
● It may be difficult to control your vehicle.
● The vehicle will make abnormal sounds or vibrations.
● The vehicle will lean abnormally.
Information on what to do in case of a flat tire (P. 425)
■ When encountering flooded roads
Do not drive on a road that has flooded after heavy rain etc. Doing so may
cause the following serious damage to the vehicle:
● Engine stalling
● Short in electrical components
● Engine damage caused by water immersion
In the event that you drive on a flooded road and the vehicle is flooded, be
sure to have your Toyota dealer check the following:
● Brake function
● Changes in quantity and quality of oil and fluid used for the engine, transmission, differential, etc.
● Lubricant condition for the propeller shaft, bearings and suspension joints
(where possible) and the function of all joints, bearings, etc.

165

2

When driving

● On vehicles with an automatic transmission, do not race the engine for
more than 5 seconds in any position except the N or P position when the
brake is applied or when chocks are used in the wheels. This may cause
the transmission fluid to overheat.

2-1. Driving procedures

Engine (ignition) switch (vehicles with a smart key system)
Performing the following operations when carrying the electronic
key on your person starts the engine or changes “ENGINE START
STOP” switch modes.

■ Starting the engine
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 Check that the parking brake is set.
STEP 2 Check that the shift lever is set in P.

If the shift lever is not set in P, the engine may not be started.
(P. 178)
STEP 3 Firmly depress the brake pedal.

The smart key system indicator light (green) will turn on. If the
indicator light does not turn on, the engine cannot be started.
STEP 4

Press the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch shortly and
firmly.
When operating the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch, one
short, firm press is enough. It is
not necessary to press and
hold the switch.
The engine will crank until it
starts or for up to 10 seconds,
whichever is less.
Continue depressing the brake
pedal until the engine is completely started.
The engine can be started
from any “ENGINE START
STOP” switch mode.

166

2-1. Driving procedures

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 Check that the parking brake is set.
STEP 2 Check that the shift lever is set in N.
STEP 3 Firmly depress the clutch pedal.

The smart key system indicator light (green) will turn on. If the
indicator light does not turn on, the engine cannot be started.
STEP 4

Press the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch shortly and
firmly.

The engine will crank until it
starts or for up to 10 seconds,
whichever is less.
Continue depressing the clutch
pedal until the engine is completely started.
The engine can be started
from any “ENGINE START
STOP” switch mode.

167

When driving

When operating the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch, one
short, firm press is enough. It is
not necessary to press and
hold the switch.

2

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Stopping the engine
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 Stop the vehicle.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to P.
STEP 3 Set the parking brake. (P. 189)
STEP 4 Release the brake pedal.
STEP 5 Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch.
STEP 6 Check that the smart key system indicator light (green) is

off.
Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 While depressing the clutch pedal, stop the vehicle.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to N.
STEP 3 Set the parking brake. (P. 189)
STEP 4 Release the clutch pedal.
STEP 5 Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch.
STEP 6 Check that the smart key system indicator light (green) is

off.

168

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Changing “ENGINE START STOP” switch mode
Modes can be changed by pressing the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch with the brake pedal (vehicles with an automatic transmission) or clutch pedal (vehicles with a manual transmission)
released. (The mode changes each time the switch is pressed.)
Off*
The emergency flashers can
be used.

ACCESSORY mode
Some electrical components
such as the power outlet can
be used.
The smart key system indicator
light (green) flashes slowly.

IGNITION ON mode
All electrical components can
be used.
The smart key system indicator
light (green) flashes slowly.
*: Vehicles with an automatic
transmission: If the shift lever is
in a position other than P when
turning off the engine, the
“ENGINE START STOP” switch
will be turned to ACCESSORY
mode, not to off.

169

When driving

The smart key system indicator
light (green) is off.

2

2-1. Driving procedures

When stopping the engine with the shift lever in a position other
than P (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
If the engine is stopped with the shift lever in a position other than P,
the “ENGINE START STOP” switch will not be turned off but instead
be turned to ACCESSORY mode. Perform the following procedure to
turn the switch off:
STEP 1 Check that the parking brake is set.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to P.
STEP 3 Check

that the smart key system indicator light (green)
flashes slowly and then press the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch once.

STEP 4 Check that the smart key system indicator light (green) is off.

■ Auto power off function
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
If the vehicle is left in ACCESSORY mode for more than 20 minutes or IGNITION ON mode (the engine is not running) for more than an hour with the
shift lever in P, the “ENGINE START STOP” switch will automatically turn off.
However, this function cannot entirely prevent battery discharge. Do not
leave the vehicle with the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in ACCESSORY
or IGNITION ON mode for long periods of time when the engine is not running.
Vehicles with a manual transmission
If the vehicle is left in ACCESSORY mode for more than 20 minutes or IGNITION ON mode (the engine is not running) for more than an hour, the
“ENGINE START STOP” switch will automatically turn off. However, this
function cannot entirely prevent battery discharge. Do not leave the vehicle
with the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in ACCESSORY or IGNITION ON
mode for long periods of time when the engine is not running.

170

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Operation of the “ENGINE START STOP” switch
If the switch is not pressed shortly and firmly, the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch mode may not change or the engine may not start.
■ Electronic key battery depletion
P. 35
■ Conditions affecting operation
P. 31
■ Note for the entry function

2

P. 32
The engine immobilizer system may not have been deactivated. (P. 79)
Contact your Toyota dealer.
Vehicles with an automatic transmission:
Check that the shift lever is securely set
in P. The engine may not start if the shift
lever is displaced out of P. The smart key
system indicator light (green) will flash
quickly.
■ Steering lock
After turning the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off and opening and closing
the doors, the steering wheel will be locked due to the steering lock function.
Operating the “ENGINE START STOP” switch again automatically cancels
the steering lock.

171

When driving

■ If the engine does not start

2-1. Driving procedures

■ When the steering lock cannot be released
The smart key system indicator light
(green) will flash quickly and a message
will be shown on the multi-information display. (P. 414)
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
Check that the shift lever is set in P. Press
the “ENGINE START STOP” switch while
turning the steering wheel left and right.
Vehicles with a manual transmission
Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch
while turning the steering wheel left and
right.
■ Steering lock motor overheating prevention
To prevent the steering lock motor from overheating, the motor may be suspended if the engine is turned on and off repeatedly in a short period of time.
In this case, refrain from operating the engine. After about 10 seconds, the
steering lock motor will resume functioning.
■ If the smart key system indicator flashes in yellow and a message is
displayed on the multi-information display
The system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by your
Toyota dealer immediately.
■ If the electronic key battery is depleted
P. 363
■ If the smart key system has been deactivated in a customized setting
P. 442
■ Immediately after reconnecting the battery terminals due to replacing
the battery and so forth
The engine may not start. If this occurs, turn the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch to IGNITION ON mode, and start the engine after waiting at least 10
seconds. Idling may be unstable immediately after the engine starts, however, this is not a malfunction.

172

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When starting the engine
● Always start the engine while sitting in the driver’s seat. Do not depress
the accelerator pedal while starting the engine under any circumstances.
Doing so may cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury.
● If the smart key system indicator light flashes in green after the engine has
started, never drive the vehicle. The steering wheel is still locked, and it
may result in an accident.

2

■ Caution while driving

■ Stopping the engine in an emergency
If you want to stop the engine in an emergency while driving the vehicle,
press and hold the “ENGINE START STOP” switch for more than 2 seconds,
or press it briefly 3 times or more in succession. (P. 455)
However, do not touch the “ENGINE START STOP” switch while driving
except in an emergency. Turning the engine off while driving will not cause
loss of steering or braking control, but the power assist to these systems will
be lost. This will make it more difficult to steer and brake, so you should pull
over and stop the vehicle as soon as it is safe to do so.

173

When driving

If engine failure occurs while the vehicle is moving, do not lock or open the
doors until the vehicle reaches a safe and complete stop. Activation of the
steering lock in this circumstance may lead to an accident, resulting in death
or serious injury.

2-1. Driving procedures

NOTICE
■ To prevent battery discharge
● Do not leave the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in ACCESSORY or IGNITION ON mode for long periods of time without the engine running.
● If the smart key system indicator light (green) is illuminated, the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch is not off. When exiting the vehicle, always check
that the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is off.
● Vehicles with an automatic transmission: Do not stop the engine when the
shift lever is in a position other than P. If the engine is stopped in another
shift lever position, the “ENGINE START STOP” switch will not be turned
off but instead be turned to ACCESSORY mode. If the vehicle is left in
ACCESSORY mode, battery discharge may occur.
■ When starting the engine
● Do not race a cold engine.
● If the engine becomes difficult to start or stalls frequently, have your vehicle checked by your Toyota dealer immediately.
● Vehicles with an automatic transmission: Do not shift the shift lever while
the starter is operating.
■ Symptoms indicating a malfunction with the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch
If the “ENGINE START STOP” switch seems to be operating somewhat differently than usual, such as the switch sticking slightly, there may be a malfunction. Contact your Toyota dealer immediately.

174

2-1. Driving procedures

Engine (ignition) switch (vehicles without a smart key system)
■ Starting the engine
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 Check that the parking brake is set.
STEP 2 Check that the shift lever is set in P.
STEP 3 Firmly depress the brake pedal.
STEP 4 Turn the engine switch to the “START” position to start the

engine.

2

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 2 Check that the shift lever is set in N.
STEP 3 Firmly depress the clutch pedal.
STEP 4 Turn the engine switch to the “START” position to start the

engine.
■ Changing the engine switch positions
“LOCK”
The steering wheel is locked
and the key can be removed.
(Vehicles with an automatic
transmission: The key can be
removed only when the shift
lever is in P.)

“ACC”
Some electrical components
such as the power outlet can
be used.

“ON”
All electrical components can
be used.

“START”
For starting the engine.
175

When driving

STEP 1 Check that the parking brake is set.

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Turning the key from “ACC” to “LOCK”
STEP 1 Shift the shift lever to N (manual transmission) or P (automatic

transmission). (P. 178, 185)
STEP 2

Push in the key and turn to the “LOCK”
position.

■ If the engine does not start
The engine immobilizer system may not have been deactivated. (P. 79)
Contact your Toyota dealer.
■ When the steering lock cannot be released
When starting the engine, the engine
switch may seem stuck in the “LOCK”
position. To free it, turn the key while turning the steering wheel slightly left and
right.

■ Key reminder function
A buzzer sounds if the driver’s door is opened while the engine switch is in
the “LOCK” or “ACC” position to remind you to remove the key.
■ Immediately after reconnecting the battery terminals due to replacing
the battery and so forth
The engine may not start. If this occurs, turn the engine switch to the “ON”
position, and start the engine after waiting at least 10 seconds. Idling may be
unstable immediately after the engine starts, however, this is not a malfunction.

176

2-1. Driving procedures

WARNING
■ When starting the engine
Always start the engine while sitting in the driver's seat. Do not depress the
accelerator pedal while starting the engine under any circumstances.
Doing so may cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury.
■ Caution when driving

NOTICE
■ To prevent battery discharge
Do not leave the engine switch in the “ACC” or “ON” position for long periods
of time without the engine running.
■ When starting the engine
● Do not crank the engine for more than 10 seconds at a time. This may
overheat the starter and wiring system.
If the engine does not start, turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position
and try to start the engine again after waiting for 10 seconds or more.
● Do not race a cold engine.
● If the engine becomes difficult to start or stalls frequently, have your vehicle checked by your Toyota dealer immediately.
● Vehicles with an automatic transmission: Do not shift the shift lever while
the starter is operating.

177

2

When driving

Do not turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position while driving. If, in an
emergency, you must turn the engine off while the vehicle is moving, turn the
engine switch only to the “ACC” position to stop the engine. An accident may
result if the engine is stopped while driving. (P. 455)

2-1. Driving procedures

Automatic transmission
Select a shift position appropriate for the driving conditions.

■ Shifting the shift lever

Vehicles without a smart key system
While the engine switch is in the “ON” position, move the
shift lever with the brake pedal depressed.
When shifting the shift lever between P and D, make sure that the
vehicle is completely stopped.

Vehicles with a smart key system
While the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION
ON mode, move the shift lever with the brake pedal
depressed.
When shifting the shift lever between P and D, make sure that the
vehicle is completely stopped.

: If equipped
178

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Shift position uses
Shift
position

Multi-information display
Monochrome
display

Color display

Function
Parking the vehicle/starting the engine

R

Reversing

N

Neutral
Normal D position driving*
(gears between “1” and “6”
are automatically
selected)

D

(paddle shift switches
activated)

M

2

When driving

P

(paddle shift switches
activated)

Temporary manual mode
driving (P. 183)
Manual mode driving
(P. 181)

*: Shifting to the D position allows the system to select a gear suitable for
the driving conditions. Setting the shift lever to the D position is recommended for normal driving.

179

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Selecting a driving mode
By pressing the driving pattern selector switch the following
modes can be selected to suit driving and usage conditions:

Normal mode
Sport mode
The “SPORT” indicator comes on.
Use sport mode for sporty driving or when driving in mountainous
regions with lots of curves.

Snow mode
The “SNOW” indicator comes on.
Use snow mode for accelerating and driving on slippery road surfaces
such as snow.

To cancel sport mode or snow mode, press the same side of the
switch again.

180

2-1. Driving procedures

Manual mode driving
To enter manual mode, shift the shift lever to the M position.
While the upshift/downshift indicator light is illuminated, gears can be
selected by operating the shift lever or paddle shift switches, allowing
you to drive in the gear of your choosing.
Even if upshifting operations are performed, if vehicle speed is too low for
the requested gear, the gear will not change.

*2

Upshift indicator
Downshift indicator
Upshifting (+)
Downshifting (-)
Each time the shift lever or paddle shift switches are operated,
the gear changes up or down
one gear and the selected gear,
“1” through “6”, will be set.
The selected gear, from “1” to “6”,
and “M” will be displayed on the
shift position and shift range indicator.

*1: Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display
*2: Vehicles with a color multi-information display
When in manual mode, the gear will not change unless the shift lever
or paddle shift switches are operated.
However, even when in manual mode, the gears will be automatically
changed in the following situations:
● When vehicle speed drops (downshift only).

181

When driving

*1

2

2-1. Driving procedures

● When engine oil temperature is high and engine speed rises close
to the red zone.
■ When moving the shift lever out of P
If the shift lever is pushed sideways before the brake pedal is depressed,
shift lever operation may not be possible. Depress the brake pedal before
shifting the shift lever out of P.
■ Downshifting restrictions warning buzzer
If downshifting operations are performed at a vehicle speed by which downshifting is not possible (when downshifting will cause the engine speed to
enter the red zone), a buzzer will sound to warn the driver that downshifting
cannot be performed.
■ When driving with cruise control activated
Downshifting can be performed even when using cruise control. After downshifting, the set speed continues. (P. 181, 183)
■ Sport mode
● In sport mode, lower gears are used and gears change at a higher
engine speed.
● If sport mode is changed to while the shift lever is in the M position, the
“SPORT” indicator will come on but sport mode controls will not be carried out. Shift the shift lever to the D position.
● Sport mode cannot be changed to when driving with cruise control activated.
■ Snow mode
To prevent slipping, 1st gear cannot be selected when in snow mode.
■ Sport mode and snow mode automatic deactivation
In the following situations, the driving mode is automatically deactivated:
● When the engine is turned off after driving in sport mode or snow mode.
● When cruise control is activated while driving in sport mode.
■ If the shift lever cannot be shifted from P
P. 439

182

2-1. Driving procedures

■ Automatic gear selection when the vehicle is stopped
When the vehicle is idling at high rpm in order to warm up, and the vehicle is
on a slippery road, the transmission may automatically shift to 2nd gear for
stopping and starting off.
■ Temporary manual mode driving

*1

*2

Temporary manual mode driving can be
changed to by operating the paddle shift
switches while the shift lever is in the D
position.

(When engine speed rises close to the
red zone, upshifting will be automatically
performed.)

*1: Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display
*2: Vehicles with a color multi-information display
Temporary manual mode driving will be deactivated and normal D position
driving will be returned to in the following situations:
● When driving for longer than the set time (the set time differs according
to driving conditions).
● When the vehicle comes to a stop.
● When the accelerator pedal is continually depressed for longer than the
set time.
● When the accelerator pedal is fully, or near-fully, depressed.

183

When driving

When this occurs, the selected gear and
“D” are displayed on the shift position and
shift range indicator.

2

2-1. Driving procedures

■ AI-SHIFT
The AI-SHIFT automatically shifts the gear to the suitable position according
to the driver performance and driving conditions.
The AI-SHIFT automatically operates when the shift lever is in the D position. (Operating the paddle shift switches or shifting the shift lever to the M
position cancels the function.)

WARNING
■ When driving on slippery road surfaces
Be careful of downshifting and sudden acceleration, as this could result in
the vehicle skidding to the side or spinning.
■ To prevent incorrect operation
Do not attach items such as accessories to the paddle shift switches.
Doing so may unintentionally move the paddle shift switches.

184

2-1. Driving procedures

Manual Transmission
■ Shifting the shift lever

2

■ Shifting the shift lever to R
Shift the shift lever to R while
lifting up the ring section.

: If equipped
185

When driving

Fully depress the clutch pedal before operating the shift lever, and
then release it slowly.

2-1. Driving procedures

Shift position indicator

*1

*2

The selected shift position will be
displayed on the multi-information display.
The selected shift position will not
appear in the following situations:
• When the shift lever is in N.
• When the vehicle speed is 6
mph (10 km/h) or less (except
when the shift lever is in R)
• When the clutch pedal is
depressed.
The default setting of the indicator
is off. The indicator can be turned
on/off. (P. 204, 217)

*1: Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display
*2: Vehicles with a color multi-information display
Shift-up indicator

*1

*2

To help enable fuel-efficient driving, the shift-up indicator flashes
3 times to indicate upshift timing.
The default setting of the indicator
is off. The indicator can be turned
on/off. (P. 204, 217)

*1: Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display
*2: Vehicles with a color multi-information display

186

2-1. Driving procedures

NOTICE
■ To prevent damage to the transmission
● Do not shift the shift lever without
depressing the clutch pedal.

2

When driving

● Do not lift up the ring section except when shifting the lever to R.
● Shift the shift lever to R only when the vehicle is stationary and the clutch
pedal is fully depressed.

187

2-1. Driving procedures

Turn signal lever
The turn signal lever can be used to show the following intentions of
the driver:

Right turn
Left turn
Lane change to the right
(push and hold the lever
partway)
The right hand signals will
flash until you release the
lever.

Lane change to the left
(push and hold the lever
partway)
The left hand signals will flash
until you release the lever.

■ Turn signals can be operated when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode.
■ If the indicators flash faster than usual
Check that a light bulb in the turn signal lights has not burned out.

188

2-1. Driving procedures

Parking brake

U.S.A.

Canada
2

To release the parking brake, slightly raise the lever and lower it
completely while pressing the button.

■ Usage in winter time
P. 261

NOTICE
■ Before driving
Fully release the parking brake.
Driving the vehicle with the parking brake set will lead to brake components
overheating, which may affect braking performance and increase brake
wear.

189

When driving

To set the parking brake, fully pull the parking brake lever while
depressing the brake pedal.

2-1. Driving procedures

Horn
To sound the horn, press on or
close to the
mark.

■ After adjusting the steering wheel
Make sure that the steering wheel is securely locked.
The horn may not sound if the steering wheel is not securely locked.
(P. 67)

190

2-2. Instrument cluster

Gauges and meters
With monochrome display

2

When driving

With color display

Analog Speedometer
Displays the vehicle speed.

Tachometer
Displays the engine speed in revolutions per minute.

Fuel gauge
Displays the quantity of fuel remaining in the tank.

191

2-2. Instrument cluster

Engine coolant temperature gauge (if equipped)
Displays the engine coolant temperature.

Digital Speedometer
Displays the vehicle speed.

Multi-information display, odometer and trip meter
P. 200, 207

“DISP” switch (if equipped)
P. 203

“ODO/TRIP” switch
P. 202

“km/h MPH” switch
Each time the switch is pressed, the display inside the meter changes
between km/h and MPH.

Instrument panel light control
The brightness of the instrument panel lights can be adjusted.
Brighter
Darker

192

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ The meters and display illuminate when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode.
■ The brightness of the instrument panel lights

NOTICE
■ To prevent damage to the engine and its components
● Do not let the indicator needle of the tachometer enter the red zone, which
indicates the maximum engine speed.
● In the following situations, the engine may be overheating. In this case,
immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place, and check the engine after it
has cooled completely. (P. 450)
• Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display: The engine
coolant temperature gauge enters the red zone
• Vehicles with a color multi-information display: The high engine coolant
temperature warning light flashes or illuminates

193

2

When driving

When the parking lights or the headlights turn on, the instrument panel lights
will dim. However, when the instrument panel brightness control dial is
turned to the up most position, the instrument panel lights will not dim even
when the parking lights or headlights turn on.

2-2. Instrument cluster

Indicators and warning lights
The indicator and warning lights on the instrument cluster and center panel inform the driver of the status of the vehicle’s various systems.

For the purpose of explanation, the following illustration displays all
indicators and warning lights illuminated.
Instrument cluster (with monochrome display)

Instrument cluster (with color display)

194

2-2. Instrument cluster

Center panel

2

When driving
195

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Indicators
The indicators inform the driver of the operating state of the
vehicle’s various systems.
Turn signal indicator
(P. 188)

Shift-up indicator
(P. 186)
(Vehicles with a manual transmission)

*2
Headlight high beam
indicator (P. 223)

(If equipped)

Front fog light indicator
(P. 228)

*1, 3

Slip indicator
(P. 246)

*3

Hill-start assist control
ON indicator
(P. 252)

Smart key system indicator (P. 166)

*1

“TRAC OFF” indicator
(P. 246)

Shift position and shift
range indicator
(P. 179)

*1

VSC off indicator
(P. 247)

Security indicator
(P. 79, 82)

(If equipped)

(Blue)
(If equipped)

Low engine coolant
temperature indicator

(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Upshift/downshift indicator (P. 181, 183)

“TRACK” indicator
(P. 247)

(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

“SPORT” indicator
(P. 180)

(Red)

REV indicator
(P. 156)

(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

“SNOW” indicator
(P. 180)

(Green)

Cruise control indicator
(P. 232)

(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Shift position indicator
(P. 186)
(Vehicles with a manual transmission)

196

“SET” indicator
(P. 232)

2-2. Instrument cluster

*4

Low outside temperature indicator (P. 219)

(If equipped)

Airbag on-off indicator (P. 128)

*1: Vehicles without a smart key system

Vehicles with a smart key system
These lights turn on when the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is
turned to IGNITION ON mode to indicate that a system check is
being performed. They will turn off after the engine is started, or
after a few seconds. There may be a malfunction in a system if a
light does not come on, or if the lights do not turn off. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer for details.

*2: This indicator turns on when the engine coolant temperature is low.
*3: The light flashes to indicate that the system is operating.
*4: When the outside temperature is approximately 37°F (3°C) or lower,
the indicator will illuminate.

197

2

When driving

These lights turn on when the engine switch is turned to the “ON”
position to indicate that a system check is being performed. They
will turn off after the engine is started, or after a few seconds. There
may be a malfunction in a system if a light does not come on, or if
the lights do not turn off. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota
dealer.

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Warning lights
Warning lights inform the driver of malfunctions in any of the
vehicle’s systems. (P. 396, 408)

*1

*1

*1

*1

*1

*1

*1

(Red)
(U.S.A.) (Canada) (U.S.A.) (Canada) (If equipped)
(If equipped)

*1

*1

(Yellow)

*1

*1

(U.S.A.) (Canada)

*
(for driver)

*1

(for the
front passenger)

1

*

1

*2

*3

*1

(If equipped) (Yellow)

*

4

*1

(If equipped) (If equipped)

*1: Vehicles without a smart key system
These lights turn on when the engine switch is turned to the “ON”
position to indicate that a system check is being performed. They
will turn off after the engine is started, or after a few seconds. There
may be a malfunction in a system if a light does not come on, or if
the lights do not turn off. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota
dealer for details.
Vehicles with a smart key system
These lights turn on when the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is
turned to IGNITION ON mode to indicate that a system check is
being performed. They will turn off after the engine is started, or
after a few seconds. There may be a malfunction in a system if a
light does not come on, or if the lights do not turn off. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer for details.

*2: The light flashes in yellow to indicate a malfunction. The light
flashes quickly in green to indicate that the steering lock has not
been released.

*3: The light comes on in yellow to indicate a malfunction.

198

2-2. Instrument cluster

*4: Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display only: This
light turns on when the engine switch is turned to the “ON” position
to indicate that a system check is being performed. It will turn off
after the engine is started, or after a few seconds. There may be a
malfunction in a system if the light does not come on or turn off.
Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer for details.

WARNING

2

Should a safety system light such as the ABS and SRS warning light not
come on when you start the engine, this could mean that these systems are
not available to help protect you in an accident, which could result in death
or serious injury. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer immediately if this occurs.

199

When driving

■ If a safety system warning light does not come on

2-2. Instrument cluster

Multi-information display (monochrome display)
The multi-information display presents the driver with a variety of
driving-related data, such as the current outside temperature. The
multi-information display can also be used to change the meter settings.

● Odometer
● Trip meter
● Outside temperature
● Current fuel consumption
● Average fuel consumption
● Setting screen for the shift
position indicator and shiftup indicator (vehicles with a
manual transmission)
● Setting screen for the REV
indicator

200

2-2. Instrument cluster

Switch the display
Pressing the “ODO/TRIP” switch or “DISP” switch displays the following information respectively:
“ODO/TRIP” switch

“DISP” switch
• Outside temperature
• Current fuel consumption
• Average fuel consumption
• Setting screen for the REV indicator

201

2

When driving

• Odometer
• Trip meter
• Setting screen for the shift position indicator and shift-up indicator (vehicles with a manual
transmission)

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Changing the display using the “ODO/TRIP” switch
Each time the “ODO/TRIP” switch is pressed, the display changes as
follows.

Odometer
Displays the total distance the vehicle has been driven.

Trip meter*1
Displays the distance the vehicle has been driven since the meter was
last reset. Trip meters A and B can be used to record and display different
distances independently.

Setting screen for the shift position indicator and shift-up indicator*2 (vehicles with a manual transmission)
P. 204
*1

: Pressing and holding the “ODO/TRIP” switch will reset the trip meter that
is currently displayed.

*2

: Only displayed when the engine switch is in the “ACC” or “LOCK” position.

202

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Changing the display using the “DISP” switch
Each time the “DISP” switch is pressed, the display changes as follows.

2

When driving

Outside temperature
Displays the outside temperature within the range of -40°F (-40°C) to
122°F (50°C).

Current fuel consumption
Displays the current rate of fuel consumption.

Average fuel consumption
Displays the average fuel consumption since the function was reset.
• The function can be reset by pushing the “DISP” switch for longer than
one second when the average fuel consumption is displayed.
• Use the displayed average fuel consumption as a reference.

Setting screen for the REV indicator*
P. 204
*: Only displayed when the vehicle is stopped.

203

2-2. Instrument cluster

Setting the shift position indicator and shift-up indicator
(vehicles with a manual transmission)
Displaying of the shift position indicator and shift-up indicator can be
turned on/off.
STEP 1 Press

the “ODO/TRIP” switch repeatedly until the setting
screen is displayed. (P. 202)

STEP 2 Each time the switch is pressed and held, the display changes

between on/off.
“G-on”: Display on
“G-oFF”: Display off
Setting the REV indicator
■ Changing the REV indicator settings
The engine speed at which the REV indicator turns on at and
whether a buzzer sounds or not when the light turns on can be set.
Engine speed setting range: From 2000 to 7400 rpm (r/min)
STEP 1 Press the “DISP” switch repeatedly until the setting screen is

displayed. (P. 203)
STEP 2

Press and
switch.

hold

the

“DISP”

“REV.” and the thousandth place
flash. After flashing, the number
changes each time the button is
pressed and held.

204

2-2. Instrument cluster

Press the “DISP” switch.

STEP 3

The hundredth place flashes.
After flashing, the number
changes each time the button is
pressed and held.

2

STEP 4 Press the “DISP” switch.

Press and
switch.

STEP 5

hold

the

“DISP”

Each time the “DISP” switch is
pressed and held, the buzzer
changes between activated and
deactivated.
“b-on”: Buzzer activated
“b-oFF”: Buzzer deactivated
When the setting changes from
“b-oFF” to “b-on”, the buzzer
sounds 3 times.
STEP 6 Press the “DISP” switch.

When the buzzer sounds, all settings have been completed. The settings are displayed.

■ Deactivating the REV indicator settings
After setting the thousandth
place to “-”, press the “DISP”
switch once.

205

When driving

A buzzer sounds once, and setting of the engine speed value is
complete.

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Outside temperature display
● In the following situations, the correct outside temperature may not be
displayed.
• When the vehicle is very hot, such as when under the sun.
• When the vehicle is idling or being driven at low speeds such as in a
traffic jam or when the engine is stopped and then restarted immediately afterward.
• When the actual outside temperature is outside of the indicator range.
● If “” is displayed for approximately 1 minute or more or if the outside
temperature is not displayed, the system may be malfunctioning. Have
the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer.

WARNING
■ The information display at low temperatures
Allow the interior of the vehicle to warm up before using the liquid crystal
information display. At extremely low temperatures, the information display
monitor may respond slowly, and display changes may be delayed.
For example, there is a lag between the driver's shifting and the new shift
position number appearing on the display. In this case, wait until the display
changes and take care not to downshift again, causing rapid and excessive
engine braking and possibly an accident resulting in death or serious injury.

206

2-2. Instrument cluster

Multi-information display (color display)
Summary of functions
The multi-information display presents the driver with a variety of driving-related data, such as the current outside temperature. The multiinformation display can also be used to change the meter settings.

2

When driving

Meter control switches (P. 208)
“ODO/TRIP” switch (P. 208)
Menu icons (P. 209)
The menu icon bar will be displayed momentarily when the meter control
switch is used to change the displayed content.

Content display area
A variety of information can be displayed by selecting a menu icon. Additionally, a warning message will be displayed in some situations.
• Menu icon content (P. 209)
• Warning message (P. 218, 408)

Odometer/trip meter display area (P. 219)
Displays the following items:
• Odometer/trip meter
• Outside temperature

207

2-2. Instrument cluster

Using the multi-information display
■ Using the content display area
The content display area is operated using the meter control
switches.
: Select menu icons
: Change displayed
content, scroll up/
down the screen
and move the cursor
:

Enter

:

Return to the previous screen

For information pertaining to the content of each menu icon, refer to
the explanation of each item under the heading of the relevant menu
icon.
■ Using the odometer/trip meter display area
Items in this area are operated using the “ODO/TRIP” switch.
Press: Change displayed item
Each time the switch is pressed,
the displayed item changes in the
order of odometer  trip meter A
 trip meter B.

Press and hold: Reset
Display the desired trip meter and
press and hold the switch to reset
the trip meter.

208

2-2. Instrument cluster

Menu icons
Select a menu icon to display its content.
Drive information (P. 210)
Select to display various drive data.

Exclusive content for 86 (P. 212)

2

Settings display (P. 217)
Select to change the meter display settings.

Warning message display (P. 218, 408)
Select to display warning messages and measures to be taken if a
malfunction is detected.

209

When driving

Select to display the G-force display, stopwatch, and other useful
functions for sporty driving.

2-2. Instrument cluster

Drive information (

)

■ Drive information (page 1)
Current fuel consumption
Displays the current rate of fuel
consumption.

Average fuel consumption
Displays the average fuel consumption since the function was
reset.

Driving range
Displays the estimated maximum
distance that can be driven with
the quantity of fuel remaining.

● Pressing and holding
tion.

will reset the average fuel consump-

● Use the displayed fuel consumption as a reference.
● This distance is computed based on your average fuel consumption. As a result, the actual distance that can be driven may
differ from that displayed.
● When only a small amount of fuel is added to the tank, the display may not be updated.
When refueling, turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off. If
the vehicle is refueled without turning the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch off, the display may not be updated.

210

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Drive information (page 2)
Average vehicle speed
Displays the average vehicle
speed since display was reset.

Driving time
Displays the cumulative time the
vehicle has been driven since display was reset.

2

Driving distance

● Pressing and holding
will reset the average vehicle speed/
driving time/driving distance.
■ Drive information (page 3)
Engine coolant temperature
gauge
Displays the engine coolant temperature.
If the engine coolant temperature
gauge needle/indicator enters the
red zone, a buzzer will sound and
a warning message will be displayed.

Engine oil temperature gauge
Displays the engine oil temperature.

Voltmeter
Displays the charging voltage.
As voltage displayed may
be different from the actual
battery voltage, use the voltmeter as a guideline.
211

When driving

Displays the cumulative distance
the vehicle has been driven since
display was reset.

2-2. Instrument cluster

● Pressing and holding
will turn the range value display on the
engine coolant temperature gauge display on/off.
Exclusive content for 86 (

)

■ G-force
Displays lateral G-forces on the vehicle
Also displays, around the periphery of the G-force display, the left and
right steering amount, accelerator pedal input, and brake fluid pressure
The following 2 screens are available for displaying G-force
• Normal display screen: Suitable for confirming current lateral G-forces
on the vehicle
• Peak-hold display screen: Suitable for confirming the size and direction
of the maximum lateral G-forces on the vehicle

212

2-2. Instrument cluster

● Reading the display
Record of the maximum Gforces
• Displayed on the peak-hold
display screen only
• To reset the record of maximum G-forces, press and hold
while the peak-hold display
screen is displayed.

G-force values that can be displayed
Front/Rear: Up to 1.3 G
Left/Right: Up to 2.5 G

G-force ball trace
The maximum number of ball
trace segments for the normal
display screen is 20 and 10 for
the peak-hold display screen.

G-force ball (acceleration Gforces on the vehicle)

213

When driving

Current G-force value (analyzed value of front/rear and
left/right G-forces)

2

2-2. Instrument cluster

Scale of the G-force display
The scale of the record of the
maximum G-forces and G-force
ball trace can be changed
between 1.0 G and 0.5 G by
pressing and holding
while
the normal display screen is displayed.

Accelerator pedal input
Brake fluid pressure
Steering amount
If the steering wheel is turned
completely to the left or right, the
bottom side of the gauge on the
corresponding side will be illuminated in red.
This display is intended for use as a guideline. Depending on factors such as
the road surface condition, temperature and vehicle speed, the display may
not show the actual condition of the vehicle.

■ Power and torque curve
Power output
Torque
Current engine speed
The vertical bar will slide laterally
according to the current engine
speed.

This chart is intended for reference only and does not show the actual
engine torque or output.

214

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ Stopwatch
Measures and displays current lap time and previous lap times

Top screen

Measurement screen

2

When driving

Fastest lap time (top screen)
When the timer is reset, “’”” will be displayed.

Fastest lap time (measurement screen)
Current lap time
Total lap time
Past lap times
Records of the 50 most recent lap times will be displayed.

Meter control switch operation guide
● Changing between the stopwatch screens
To change to the measurement screen: Press
To change to the top screen: Press

.

.

215

2-2. Instrument cluster

● Operating the measurement screen
:

Start/stop measurement

:

Mark off one lap

:

Reset measured lap
times
: Scroll through the
lap times

● Resetting measured lap times
After stopping the measurement, press

.

● To display other content while the stopwatch is operating
If the measurement screen is displayed, press
to display the
top screen. Then operate the meter control switches to display
other content. While other items are displayed, the measurement
will continue but the stopwatch cannot be operated.

216

2-2. Instrument cluster

Settings display (

)

Use the meter control switches on the steering wheel to change settings.
STEP 1 Press

or

to select

.

STEP 2 Operate the switches to select a desired item.
STEP 3 Press

press

or

RPM

Settings

Off

--00 rpm
(OFF) ~
7400 rpm

REV.
On
Buzzer

GSI (vehicles with a
manual transmission)

to change the setting and then
2

to confirm the change.

On
Welcome screen

/

Off
On
Off

Details

When driving

Item

/

Select to enable/disable the welcome
screen when the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch is turned to IGNITION
ON mode.
Select to enable/disable the REV indicator and set the engine speed at
which the REV indicator will be illuminated.
To disable, select “--” for the engine
speed (--00 rpm)
Selectable engine speed range: 2000
to 7400 rpm
Select to enable/disable the sounding
of a buzzer when the REV indicator is
illuminated. This setting can be
changed only when the REV indicator
is enabled.
Select to enable/disable the shift position indicator and shift-up indicator.
(P. 186)

English
Language

French

Select to change the language displayed.

Spanish

217

2-2. Instrument cluster

Item

Settings

Details

km, km/h,
km/l
Units

km, km/h,
l/100km

Select to change the units of measure
displayed.

miles,
MPH,
MPG
Initialization

Warning message (

Yes

Select to reset the meter display settings to the default setting.

No

)

Select to display warning messages related to situations such as a
vehicle malfunction.
● If there is more than one message to be displayed, press
to change the display.

/

● If there are no warning messages to be displayed, a message indicating so will be
displayed.

218

2-2. Instrument cluster

Odometer/trip meter display area
■ Odometer
Displays the total distance the vehicle has been driven.
■ Trip meter A/trip meter B
Displays the distance the vehicle has been driven since the meter
was last reset. Trip meters A and B can be used to record and display
different distances independently.

■ Outside temperature
Displays the outside temperature within the range of -40°F (-40°C) to
122°F (50°C). Low outside temperature indicator comes on when the
ambient temperature is 37°F (3°C) or lower.

219

When driving

To reset, display the desired trip meter and press and hold the “ODO/
TRIP” switch.

2

2-2. Instrument cluster

■ G-force display
● Depending on the vehicle usage conditions, the brake fluid pressure display may not reach its maximum reading even though the brake pedal is
fully depressed.
● If a battery terminal is disconnected and reconnected, the steering
amount display may be disabled temporarily. After driving the vehicle for
a while, the display will be enabled.
■ Suspension of the settings display
● The settings cannot be changed while driving. When changing settings,
park the vehicle in a safe place.
● If a warning message is displayed, operation of the settings display will
be suspended.
■ Using the stopwatch
If the engine is stopped while the stopwatch is operating, the stopwatch will
stop and the time up to that point will be recorded.
■ Outside temperature display
● In the following situations, the correct outside temperature may not be
displayed.
• When the vehicle is very hot, such as when under the sun.
• When the vehicle is idling or being driven at low speeds such as in a
traffic jam or when the engine is stopped and then restarted immediately afterward.
• When the actual outside temperature is outside of the indicator range.
● If “” is displayed for approximately 1 minute or more or if the outside
temperature is not displayed, the system may be malfunctioning. Have
the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer.
■ Liquid crystal display
Small spots or light spots may appear on the display. This phenomenon is
characteristic of liquid crystal displays, and there is no problem continuing to
use the display.

220

2-2. Instrument cluster

WARNING
■ Caution for use while driving
● When operating the multi-information display while driving, pay extra
attention to the safety of the area around the vehicle.
● Do not look continuously at the multi-information display while driving as
you may fail to see pedestrians, objects on the road, etc. ahead of the
vehicle.
2

■ The information display at low temperatures

■ Cautions during setting up the display
As the engine needs to be running during setting up the display, ensure that
the vehicle is parked in a place with adequate ventilation. In a closed area
such as a garage, exhaust gases including harmful carbon monoxide (CO)
may collect and enter the vehicle. This may lead to death or a serious health
hazard.

NOTICE
■ While setting up the display
To prevent battery discharge, ensure that the engine is running while setting
up the display features.

221

When driving

Allow the interior of the vehicle to warm up before using the liquid crystal
information display. At extremely low temperatures, the information display
monitor may respond slowly, and display changes may be delayed.
For example, there is a lag between the driver’s shifting and the new gear
number appearing on the display. This lag could cause the driver to downshift again, causing rapid and excessive engine braking and possibly an
accident resulting in death or injury.

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

Headlight switch
The headlights can be operated manually or automatically.

Operating the

switch turns on the lights as follows:
Off
The daytime running lights
turn on. (P. 224)

The headlights, parking/daytime
running
lights (P. 224) and so
on turn on and off automatically.
(Vehicles
without a smart key
system:
When
the
engine switch is in the
“ON” position
Vehicles with a smart
key system: When the
“ENGINE
START
STOP” switch is in
IGNITION ON mode)
The side marker, parking, tail, license plate
and instrument panel
lights turn on.
The headlights and all
the lights listed above
(except daytime running lights) turn on.

222

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

Turning on the high beam headlights
With the headlights on, push
the lever forward to turn on the
high beams.
Pull the lever back to the center
position to turn the high beams
off.

You can flash the high beams
with the headlights on or off.

223

2

When driving

Pull the lever toward you and
release it to flash the high
beams once.

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

■ Daytime running light system
● The daytime running lights illuminate using the same lights as the parking
lights and illuminate brighter than the parking lights.
● To make your vehicle more visible to other drivers during daytime driving,
the daytime running lights turn on automatically when all of the following
conditions are met. (The daytime running lights are not designed for use
at night.)
• The engine is running
• The shift lever is shifted out of P (Vehicles with an automatic transmission)
• The parking brake is released
• The headlight switch is off or in the “AUTO”* position
*:When the surroundings are bright
The daytime running lights remain on after they illuminate even if the parking
brake is set again.
● When the turn signal indicators are flashing, the daytime running light on
the side that the turn signals are flashing will turn off.
● When the emergency flashers are flashing, both daytime running lights
will turn off.
● Compared to turning on the headlights, the daytime running light system
offers greater durability and consumes less electricity, so it can help
improve fuel economy.

224

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

■ Headlight control sensor
Headlight control sensor is located on the
passenger's side.
The sensor may not function properly if
an object is placed on the sensor, or anything that blocks the sensor is affixed to
the windshield.

■ Automatic light off system
Vehicles without a smart key system
The light switch is in
, the headlights and tail lights turn off 30 seconds after a door is opened and closed if the engine switch is turned off.
(The lights turn off immediately if
doors are locked.)

on the key is pressed after all the

To turn the lights on again, turn the engine switch to “ON” position, or turn
the light switch off and then back to

or

.

Vehicles with a smart key system
The light switch is in
, the headlights and tail lights turn off 30 seconds after a door is opened and closed if the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch is turned off. (The lights turn off immediately if
pressed after all the doors are locked.)

on the key is

To turn the lights on again, turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to IGNITION ON mode, or turn the light switch off and then back to

or

.

225

2

When driving

Doing so interferes with the sensor
detecting the level of ambient light and
may cause the automatic headlight system to malfunction.

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

■ Light reminder buzzer
Vehicles without a smart key system
A buzzer sounds when the engine switch is turned to “LOCK” position and
the driver's door is opened with the key removed from the engine switch
while the lights are turned on.
Vehicles with a smart key system
A buzzer sounds when the lights are left on with the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch off and the driver’s door is opened.
■ Automatic headlight leveling system
The level of the headlights is automatically adjusted according to the number
of passengers and the loading condition of the vehicle to ensure that the
headlights do not interfere with other road users.
■ Battery-saving function
In the following conditions, the headlights and the other remaining lights will
go off automatically after 20 minutes in order to prevent the vehicle battery
from being discharged:
● The headlights and/or tail lights are on.
● The key is removed from the engine switch (vehicles without a smart key
system) or the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is turned off (vehicles with
a smart key system).
● The light switch is in

or

.

This function will be canceled in any of the following situations:
● When the engine switch is turned to the “ON” position (vehicles without a
smart key system) or the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is turned to
IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system).
● When the light switch is turned off.
● When the door is opened or closed.
■ Customization that can be configured at your Toyota dealer
Settings of the light sensor sensitivity can be changed.
(Customizable features P. 487)

226

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

NOTICE
■ To prevent battery discharge
Do not leave the lights on longer than necessary when the engine is not running.

2

When driving
227

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

Fog light switch
The fog lights secure excellent visibility in difficult driving conditions, such as in rain and fog.

Turns the front fog lights off
Turns the front fog lights on

■ Fog lights can be used when
The headlights are on in low beam.

: If equipped
228

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

Windshield wipers and washer
When intermittent windshield wiper operation is selected, the wiper
interval can be adjusted.

Operating the
lows.

lever operates the wipers or washer as folIntermittent
windshield
wiper operation
Low speed windshield wiper
operation

Temporary operation

Decreases the intermittent
windshield wiper frequency
Increases the intermittent
windshield wiper frequency

229

When driving

High speed windshield
wiper operation

2

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

Washer/wiper
operation

dual

Pulling the lever operates the
wipers and washer.
The wipers will automatically
operate a couple of times after
the washer squirts.

■ The windshield wipers and washer can be operated when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode.
■ If no windshield washer fluid sprays
Check that the washer nozzles are not blocked if there is washer fluid in the
windshield washer fluid tank.

WARNING
■ Caution regarding the use of washer fluid
When it is cold, do not use the washer fluid until the windshield becomes
warm. The fluid may freeze on the windshield and cause low visibility. This
may lead to an accident, resulting in death or serious injury.

230

2-3. Operating the lights and windshield wipers

NOTICE
■ When the windshield is dry
Do not use the wipers, as they may damage the windshield.
■ When the washer fluid tank is empty
Do not operate the switch continually as the washer fluid pump may overheat.
■ When a nozzle becomes blocked

2

In this case, contact your Toyota dealer.
Do not try to clear it with a pin or other object. The nozzle will be damaged.
When driving
231

2-4. Using other driving systems

Cruise control
Use the cruise control to maintain a set speed without depressing
the accelerator pedal.

Indicators
Cruise control switch

■ Setting the vehicle speed
STEP 1

Press the “ON-OFF” button to
activate the cruise control.
Cruise control indicator (green)
will come on.
Press the button again to
deactivate the cruise control.

STEP 2

Accelerate or decelerate the
vehicle to the desired speed,
and push the lever down to set
the speed.
“SET” indicator will come on.
The vehicle speed at the
moment the lever is released
becomes the set speed.

232

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Adjusting the set speed
To change the set speed, operate the lever until the desired set
speed is obtained.
Increases the speed
Decreases the speed
Fine adjustment: Momentarily
move the lever in the desired
direction.

The set speed will be increased or decreased as follows:
Fine adjustment (vehicles with a km/h odometer display): By approximately 0.6 mph (1 km/h) each time the lever is operated.
Fine adjustment (vehicles with an mph odometer display): By approximately 1 mph (1.6 km/h) each time the lever is operated.
Large adjustment: The set speed can be increased or decreased continually until the lever is released.

233

When driving

Large adjustment: Hold the
lever in the desired direction.

2

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Canceling and resuming the constant speed control
Pulling the lever toward you
cancels the constant speed
control.
The speed setting is also canceled when the brakes are
applied or the clutch pedal
(manual transmission only) is
depressed.

Pushing the lever up
resumes
the
constant
speed control.
Resuming is available when
the vehicle speed is more
than approximately 20 mph
(30 km/h).

■ Cruise control can be set when
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
● The shift lever is in D or M and the vehicle is in the 2nd gear or higher.
● Vehicle speed is above approximately 25 mph (40 km/h).
Vehicles with a manual transmission
● The vehicle is in the 2nd gear or higher.
● Vehicle speed is above approximately 25 mph (40 km/h).

234

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Accelerating after setting the vehicle speed
● The vehicle can be accelerated normally. After acceleration, the set
speed resumes.
● Even without canceling the cruise control, the set speed can be
increased by first accelerating the vehicle to the desired speed and then
pushing the lever down to set the new speed.
■ Automatic cruise control cancelation
Cruise control will stop maintaining the vehicle speed in any of the following
situations.

2

● Actual vehicle speed is below approximately 20 mph (30 km/h).
■ The system may be malfunctioning when
In the following situations, the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer.
● The cruise control indicator light comes on in yellow.
● The cruise control indicator does not come on even when the “ON-OFF”
button is pressed while the engine is running.

235

When driving

● VSC is activated.

2-4. Using other driving systems

WARNING
■ To avoid operating the cruise control by mistake
Switch the cruise control off using the “ON-OFF” button when not in use.
■ Situations unsuitable for cruise control
Do not use cruise control in any of the following situations.
Doing so may result in loss of control and could cause an accident resulting
in death or serious injury.
● In heavy traffic
● On roads with sharp bends
● On winding roads
● On slippery roads, such as those covered with rain, ice or snow
● On steep hills
Vehicle speed may exceed the set speed when driving down a steep hill.
● During emergency towing

236

2-4. Using other driving systems

Rear view monitor system
The rear view monitor assists the driver by displaying an image of
the area behind the vehicle while reversing. The image is displayed
in reverse on the screen. This reversed image is a similar image to
the one on the inside rear view mirror.

The rear view image will be
displayed on the rear view
monitor within a few seconds
after the shift lever is shifted to
R.

Screen
Automatic transmission
Manual transmission

237

When driving

When the shift lever is shifted
to a position other than R, the
image will continue to be displayed for approximately 5
seconds.

2

2-4. Using other driving systems

Displayed area
● The area behind the rear
bumper can be displayed.
Areas on both the left and right
side of the rear bumper and
areas just under the rear
bumper cannot be displayed.
● The distance of the image displayed on the screen will look
shorter than the actual distance.

● Areas above the rear view
camera cannot be displayed.
● If there is an object behind the
vehicle with a long protrusion
on its upper part, such as a
sign pole, the protruding part
will not be displayed on the
screen.

238

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Distance from the ground on the screen
The distance markers show the distance from an object on level
ground when the vehicle is unloaded. Depending on the loading
condition and road condition, the distance shown on the screen
may be different from the actual distance.
When there is an upward slope behind the vehicle
“A”: 3 ft. (1 m)

When there is a downward slope behind the vehicle
“A”: 3 ft. (1 m)
The distance of the image on the
screen will look closer than the
actual distance.

■ Distance markers
3 ft. (1 m) line
10 ft. (3 m) line
The distance markers show the
distance from points on the road.
If there is a car or other object
close to the rear of the vehicle,
the distance will not be displayed
correctly.

239

2

When driving

The distance of the image on the
screen will look farther than the
actual distance.

2-4. Using other driving systems

Guide lines
The guide lines (distance markers and vehicle width lines) are a
guide to help you realize the actual distance of points on the screen.
Vehicle width lines (oblique
vertical lines)
Approximately 10 ft. (3 m)
from the bumper (green horizontal line)
Approximately 3 ft. (1 m) from
the bumper (yellow horizontal
line)
Approximately 1.5 ft. (0.5 m)
from the bumper (red horizontal line)
Vehicle centerline
When the shift lever is shifted
to R, the screen will display
the guide lines together with
the rear view image.

240

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Rear view monitor camera
In the following cases, it may be difficult
to see images on the screen even when
the system is functioning correctly:
● The vehicle is in a dark area, such
as at night.
● The temperature near the lens is
extremely high or low.

● Foreign matter, such as snow and
mud, adheres to the camera lens.
● The camera lens is scratched or has
dirt on it.
● The sun or headlights are shining
directly into the camera lens.
● A bright object such as a white wall
is reflected in the mirror surface
over the screen.

241

When driving

● Water droplets are on the camera
lens or humidity is high, such as
when it rains.

2

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Smear effect
If a bright light, such as sunlight
reflected off the vehicle body, is picked
up by the camera, a smear effect* characteristic to the camera may occur.
*: Smear effect  A phenomenon that
occurs when a bright light is picked
up by the camera; when transmitted
by the camera, the light source
appears to have a vertical streak
above and below it.
■ Flicker effect
When the camera is used under fluorescent light, sodium lights, or mercury
lights etc., the lights and the illuminated areas may appear to flicker.

242

2-4. Using other driving systems

WARNING
■ When using the rear view monitor system
Observe the following precautions to avoid an accident that could result in
death or serious injuries.
● The rear view monitor system is a supplement device intended to assist
back up. Never depend solely on the rear view monitor system when
reversing. Always check visually and with the mirrors to confirm your
intended path is clear. Use caution just as you would when backing up any
vehicle.

● Always check the vehicle surrounding area, because the guide lines are
ancillary lines.
● The guide lines are ancillary lines and do not change even if the steering
wheel is turned.
● Do not use the system if the trunk is open.
■ Conditions which may affect the rear view monitor system
● If the back of the vehicle has been hit, the camera’s position and mounting
angle may have changed. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota
dealer.
● When the outside temperature is low, the displayed image may become
faint or dark, and moving images will be distorted, or not entirely visible.
● Rapid temperature changes, such as when hot water is poured on the
vehicle in cold weather, may cause the system to function abnormally.
● If the camera lens is dirty, it cannot transmit a clear image. Rinse with
water and wipe with a soft cloth. If the camera lens is extremely dirty, wash
with a mild cleanser and rinse.
● If the tire size is changed, the area displayed on the screen may change.
● Do not do the following. Doing so may scratch the lens, which may have a
negative effect on the image displayed on the screen.
• Rub the camera lens hard
• Use a hard brush to scrub the camera lens
• Scrub the lens with abrasive cleaners

243

When driving

● The camera has a special lens. Depicted distances between objects and
flat surfaces differ from actual distances.

2

2-4. Using other driving systems

NOTICE
■ To prevent damage to the camera
● As the camera has a water proof construction, do not detach, disassemble
or modify it. This may cause incorrect operation.
● Take care so that organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat
does not adhere to the camera. If this happens, wipe it off as soon as possible.

244

2-4. Using other driving systems

Driving assist systems
To help enhance driving safety and performance, the following systems operate automatically in response to various driving situations.
Be aware, however, that these systems are supplementary and
should not be relied upon too heavily when operating the vehicle.

■ ABS (Anti-lock Brake System)
Helps to prevent wheel lock when the brakes are applied suddenly, or if
the brakes are applied while driving on a slippery road surface
2

■ Brake assist

■ VSC (Vehicle Stability Control)
Helps the driver to control skidding when swerving suddenly or turning
on slippery road surfaces

■ TRAC (Traction Control)
Helps to maintain drive power and prevent the drive wheels from spinning when starting the vehicle or accelerating on slippery roads.
The TRAC system is also equipped with the brake LSD function.

■ Hill-start assist control
P. 252
■ EPS (Electric Power Steering)
Employs an electric motor to reduce the amount of effort needed to turn
the steering wheel

245

When driving

Generates an increased level of braking force after the brake pedal is
depressed when the system detects a panic stop situation

2-4. Using other driving systems

When the TRAC/VSC systems are operating
The slip indicator light will flash
while the TRAC (brake LSD
function)/VSC systems are operating.

Disabling the TRAC system
If the vehicle gets stuck in mud, dirt or snow, the TRAC system may
reduce power from the engine to the wheels. Pressing

to turn

the system off may make it easier for you to rock the vehicle in order
to free it.
In this case, the brake LSD function remains on.
To turn the TRAC system off,
quickly press and release the
button.
The “TRAC OFF” indicator light
will come on.
Press the button again to turn the
system back on.

246

2-4. Using other driving systems

“TRACK” mode
Your vehicle is equipped with two types of control modes to accommodate various driving preferences. The control modes can be
selected with the “TRACK” switch. Normal mode allows secure and
smooth normal driving. When the switch is pressed and held for 1
second or more, “TRACK” mode is activated. Control characteristics
such as the VSC and TRAC are adjusted to afford maneuverability
closer to what a driver may desire, while a sense of security is
retained.

The “TRACK” indicator and VSC
off indicator come on when in
“TRACK” mode.
To change back to normal mode
while in “TRACK” mode, press
or the “TRACK” switch.

Turning off both TRAC and VSC systems
To turn the TRAC and VSC systems off, press and hold
more than 3 seconds while the vehicle is stopped.

for

The “TRAC OFF” indicator light and the VSC off indicator light will
come on.
However, on vehicles with an automatic transmission, the brake LSD
function will remain on.
Press the button again to turn the systems back on.

247

When driving

“TRACK” mode/Normal mode

2

2-4. Using other driving systems

Selecting TRAC mode and VSC mode
Modes can be selected to suit your driving conditions as follows:
Driving
conditions

TRAC
modes

VSC modes

Brake LSD
function

Indicator lights

Normal
roads

Normal
mode

Normal
mode

Normal
mode



Rough
roads

Off

Normal
mode

Normal
mode

“TRACK”
mode

“TRACK”
mode

“TRACK”
mode

Off

“TRACK”
mode*1

Sport
driving

Off

Off*2

*1: Vehicles with an automatic transmission
*2: Vehicles with a manual transmission

248

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Sounds and vibrations caused by the ABS, brake assist, TRAC and
VSC systems
● A sound may be heard from the engine compartment when the brake
pedal is depressed repeatedly, when the engine is started or just after the
vehicle begins to move. This sound does not indicate that a malfunction
has occurred in any of these systems.
● Any of the following conditions may occur when the above systems are
operating. None of these indicates that a malfunction has occurred.

■ EPS operation sound
When the steering wheel is operated, a motor sound (whirring sound) may
be heard. This does not indicate a malfunction.
■ Automatic reactivation of TRAC and VSC systems
After turning the TRAC and VSC systems off, the systems will be automatically reactivated in the following situations:
● Vehicles without a smart key system: When the engine switch is turned to
“LOCK” position
● Vehicles with a smart key system: When the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch is turned off
● If only the TRAC system is turned off, the TRAC will turn on when vehicle
speed is more than approximately 31 mph (50 km/h).
If both the TRAC and VSC systems are turned off, automatic reactivation
will not occur when vehicle speed increases.

249

2

When driving

• Vibrations may be felt through the vehicle body and steering.
• A motor sound may be heard after the vehicle comes to a stop.
• The brake pedal may pulsate slightly after the ABS is activated.
• The brake pedal may move down slightly after the ABS is activated.

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Reduced effectiveness of the EPS system
The effectiveness of the EPS system is reduced to prevent the system from
overheating when there is frequent steering input over an extended period of
time. The steering wheel may feel heavy as a result. Should this occur,
refrain from excessive steering input or stop the vehicle and turn the engine
off. The EPS system should return to normal after a little while.
■ Automatic deactivation of “TRACK” mode
Vehicles without a smart key system
When the engine switch is turned to “LOCK” position after driving in
“TRACK” mode, the mode is automatically deactivated.
Vehicles with a smart key system
When the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is turned off after driving in
“TRACK” mode, the mode is automatically deactivated.

WARNING
■ The ABS does not operate effectively when
● Tires with inadequate gripping ability are used (such as excessively worn
tires on a snow covered road).
● The vehicle hydroplanes while driving at high speed on wet or slick roads.
■ Stopping distance when the ABS is operating may exceed that of normal conditions
The ABS is not designed to shorten the vehicle’s stopping distance. Always
maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front of you in the following situations:
● When driving on dirt, gravel or snow-covered roads
● When driving with tire chains
● When driving over bumps in the road
● When driving over roads with potholes or uneven surfaces

250

2-4. Using other driving systems

WARNING
■ TRAC may not operate effectively when
Directional control and power may not be achievable while driving on slippery road surfaces, even if the TRAC system is operating.
Do not drive the vehicle in conditions where stability and power may be lost.
■ When the VSC and/or brake LSD function is activated
The slip indicator light flashes. Always drive carefully. Reckless driving may
cause an accident. Exercise particular care when the indicator light flashes.

2

■ When the TRAC/VSC systems are turned off

■ Replacing tires
Make sure that all tires are of the specified size, brand, tread pattern and
total load capacity. In addition, make sure that the tires are inflated to the
recommended tire inflation pressure level.
The ABS, TRAC and VSC systems will not function correctly if different tires
are installed on the vehicle.
Contact your Toyota dealer for further information when replacing tires or
wheels.
■ Handling of tires and suspension
Using tires with any kind of problem or modifying the suspension will affect
the driving assist systems, and may cause a system to malfunction.

251

When driving

Be especially careful and drive at a speed appropriate to the road conditions. As these are the systems to help ensure vehicle stability and driving
force, do not turn the TRAC/VSC systems off unless necessary.

2-4. Using other driving systems

Hill-start assist control
Hill-start assist control helps to maintain braking force to assist
starting off forward while facing uphill or starting off backward while
facing downhill. As hill-start assist control is initially disabled,
enable the system to make it operable. The enabled/disabled setting
will be maintained the next time the engine is started.

The hill-start assist control ON
indicator will be illuminated
when system is enabled and
flash while the system is operating.

■ Enabling hill-start assist control
STEP 1 Park your vehicle in a flat, safe location.

Make sure that the parking brake is securely engaged.
STEP 2 Stop the engine by turning the engine switch to the “LOCK”

position (vehicles without a smart key system) or turning
the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off (vehicles with a
smart key system).
STEP 3 Start the engine and check that the ABS warning light and

slip indicator are off.
STEP 4

Press

and

hold

for

approximately 30 seconds.
Check that both the VSC off
indicator and “TRAC OFF” indicator illuminate and then turn
off.

252

2-4. Using other driving systems

STEP 5 Within 5 seconds after the indicator lights turn off, release

. Then, press the switch again within 2 seconds of
releasing it.
The hill-start assist control ON indicator will illuminate and then
turn off.
STEP 6 Turn the engine switch to the “LOCK” position (vehicles

Hill-start assist control is enabled when the indicator is illuminated.

To disable hill-start assist control, perform the above
through STEP 6 again.

STEP 1

■ When enabling the hill-start assist control
● If the hill-start assist control ON indicator does not illuminate or if an
incorrect operation is performed, turn the engine switch to the “LOCK”
position (vehicles without a smart key system) or turn the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch off (vehicles with a smart key system) and then
restart the enabling procedure from STEP 4 .
● If

is pressed and held for approximately 30 seconds or more, the

VSC off indicator and “TRAC OFF” indicator will turn off and subsequent
operations of the switch will be rejected. In this case, the VSC system will
operate in normal mode. (P. 248) To enable

, turn the engine

switch to the “ACC” or “LOCK” position (vehicles without a smart key system) or turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off (vehicles with a smart
key system) and then restart the engine.

253

2

When driving

without a smart key system) or turn the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch off (vehicles with a smart key system). Then,
restart the engine and check that the hill-start assist control
ON indicator is illuminated.

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Operating conditions of hill-start assist control
When the following conditions are met, the hill-start assist control will operate:
● Vehicles with an automatic transmission: The shift lever is in D or M
(when starting off forward on while facing uphill) or in R (when starting off
backward while facing downhill).
● Vehicles with a manual transmission: The shift lever is in a position other
than R (when starting off forward while facing uphill) or in R (when starting off backward while facing downhill).
● The vehicle is stopped.
● The accelerator pedal is not depressed.
● The parking brake is not engaged.
■ Hill-start assist control will not operate when
Hill-start assist control will not operate when any of the following conditions
are met:
● Vehicles with an automatic transmission: The shift lever is in a position
other than D or M (when facing uphill) or in a position other than R (when
facing downhill).
● Vehicles with a manual transmission: The shift lever is in R (when facing
uphill) or in a position other than R (when facing downhill).
● Vehicles with an automatic transmission: The accelerator pedal is
depressed.
● The parking brake is applied.
● Vehicles with a manual transmission: The clutch is engaged.
● Approximately 2 seconds have elapsed since the brake pedal was
released.
● The hill-start assist control ON indicator is not illuminated.
● Vehicles without a smart key system: The engine switch is turned to the
“ACC” or “LOCK” position.
● Vehicles with a smart key system: The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is
turned to ACCESSORY mode or turned off.

254

2-4. Using other driving systems

■ Notes for hill-start assist control
● A slight jolt may be felt when starting off backward with the shift lever in R
and then moving forward.
● If the braking power of hill-start assist control is insufficient, depress the
brake pedal.
● While the vehicle is stopped, make sure to depress the brake pedal.
■ The system may be malfunctioning when
In the following situations, the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer.

When driving

● The slip indicator is illuminated.

2

● The hill-start assist control ON indicator turns off and a buzzer sounds.

WARNING
■ Hill-start assist control precautions
● Do not overly rely on hill-start assist control. Hill-start assist control may
not operate effectively on steep inclines and roads covered with ice.
● Unlike the parking brake, hill-start assist control is not intended to hold the
vehicle stationary for an extended period of time. Do not attempt to use
hill-start assist control to hold the vehicle on an incline, as doing so may
lead to an accident.
● Do not stop the engine while hill-start assist control is operating, as hillstart assist control will stop operating, possibly leading to an accident.

255

2-5. Driving information

Cargo and luggage
Take notice of the following information about storage precautions, cargo capacity and load:

● Stow cargo and luggage in the trunk whenever possible.
● Be sure all items are secured in place.
● To maintain vehicle balance while driving, position luggage
evenly within the luggage compartment.
● For better fuel economy, do not carry unnecessary weight.

Capacity and distribution
Cargo capacity depends on the total weight of the occupants.
(Cargo capacity) = (Total load capacity) - (Total weight of occupants)
Steps for Determining Correct Load Limit
(1)Locate the statement “The combined weight of occupants and
cargo should never exceed XXX kg or XXX lbs.” on your vehicle's
placard.
(2)Determine the combined weight of the driver and passengers that
will be riding in your vehicle.
(3)Subtract the combined weight of the driver and passengers from
XXX kg or XXX lbs.
(4)The resulting figure equals the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity.
For example, if the “XXX” amount equals 1400 lbs. and there will
be five 150 lb passengers in your vehicle, the amount of available
cargo and luggage load capacity is 650 lbs. (1400 - 750 (5  150) =
650 lbs.)
(5)Determine the combined weight of luggage and cargo being
loaded on the vehicle. That weight may not safely exceed the available cargo and luggage load capacity calculated in Step 4.
256

2-5. Driving information

(6)If your vehicle will be towing a trailer, load from your trailer will be
transferred to your vehicle. Consult this manual to determine how
this reduces the available cargo and luggage load capacity of your
vehicle.
(P. 458)
Toyota does not recommend towing a trailer with your vehicle. Your
vehicle is not designed for trailer towing.

Calculation formula for your vehicle

2

Total load capacity (vehicle
capacity weight) (P. 458)

When 2 people with the combined weight of A lb. (kg) are riding in
your vehicle, which has a total load capacity (vehicle capacity weight)
of B lb. (kg), the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity
will be C lb. (kg) as follows:
B*2 lb. (kg) - A*1 lb. (kg) = C*3 lb. (kg)
*1: A =Weight of people
*2: B =Total load capacity
*3: C =Available cargo and luggage load
In this condition, if 2 more passengers with the combined weight of D
lb. (kg) get on, the available cargo and luggage load will be reduced E
lb. (kg) as follows:

C lb. (kg) - D*4 lb. (kg) = E*5 lb. (kg)
*4: D =Additional weight of people
*5: E =Available cargo and luggage load

257

When driving

Cargo capacity

2-5. Driving information

As shown in the example above, if the number of occupants
increases, the cargo and luggage load will be reduced by an amount
that equals the increased weight due to the additional occupants. In
other words, if an increase in the number of occupants causes an
excess of the total load capacity (combined weight of occupants plus
cargo and luggage load), you must reduce the cargo and luggage on
your vehicle.
WARNING
■ Things that must not be carried in the trunk

The following things may cause a fire if loaded in the trunk:
● Receptacles containing gasoline
● Aerosol cans

258

2-5. Driving information

WARNING
■ Storage precautions

Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury.
● Stow cargo and luggage in the trunk whenever possible.
● To prevent cargo and luggage from sliding forward during braking, do

not stack anything in the enlarged trunk. Keep cargo and luggage low,
as close to the floor as possible.

2

● When you fold down the rear seats, long items should not be placed
● Never allow anyone to ride in the enlarged trunk. It is not designed for

passengers. They should ride in their seats with their seat belts properly fastened. Otherwise, they are much more likely to suffer death or
serious bodily injury, in the event of sudden braking, sudden swerving
or an accident.

● Do not place cargo or luggage in or on the following locations as the

item may get under the clutch, brake or accelerator pedal and prevent
the pedals from being depressed properly, block the driver’s vision, or
hit the driver or passengers, causing an accident:

• At the feet of the driver
• On the front passenger or rear seats (when stacking items)
• On the package tray
• On the instrument panel
• On the dashboard
● Secure all items in the occupant compartment, as they may shift and
injure someone during sudden braking, sudden swerving or an accident.
■ Capacity and distribution
● Do not exceed the maximum axle weight rating or the total vehicle

weight rating.

● Even if the total load of occupant's weight and the cargo load is less

than the total load capacity, do not apply the load unevenly. Improper
loading may cause deterioration of steering or braking control which
may cause death or serious injury.

259

When driving

directly behind the front seats.

2-5. Driving information

Vehicle load limits
Vehicle load limits include total load capacity, seating capacity,
towing capacity and cargo capacity.

■ Total load capacity (vehicle capacity weight): (P. 458)
Total load capacity means the combined weight of occupants, cargo
and luggage.

■ Seating capacity
Seating capacity means the maximum number of occupants whose
estimated average weight is 150 lb. (68 kg) per person.

■ Towing capacity
Toyota does not recommend towing a trailer with your vehicle.

■ Cargo capacity
Cargo capacity may increase or decrease depending on the weight
and the number of occupants.

■ Total load capacity and seating capacity

These details are described on the tire and loading information label.
(P. 353)

WARNING
■ Overloading the vehicle

Do not overload the vehicle.
It may not only cause damage to the tires, but also degrade steering and
braking ability, resulting in an accident.

260

2-5. Driving information

Winter driving tips
Carry out the necessary preparations and inspections before driving
the vehicle in winter. Always drive the vehicle in a manner appropriate to the prevailing weather conditions.

■ Pre-winter preparations
● Use fluids that are appropriate to the prevailing outside temperatures.
• Engine oil
• Washer fluid

2

● Have the vehicle fitted with four snow tires.
Make sure to install 4 tires that are of the specified size, and that
all 4 tires are the same size, same maker, same brand and tread
pattern.

■ Before driving the vehicle
Perform the following according to the driving conditions.
● Do not try to forcibly open a window or move a wiper that is
frozen. Pour warm water over the frozen area to melt the ice.
Wipe away the water immediately to prevent it from freezing.
● To ensure proper operation of the climate control system fan,
remove any snow that has accumulated on the air inlet vents
in front of the windshield.
● Check for and remove any excess ice or snow that may have
accumulated on the exterior lights, vehicle's roof, chassis,
around the tires or on the brakes.
● Remove any snow or mud from the bottom of your shoes
before getting in the vehicle.

261

When driving

● Have a service technician inspect the condition of the battery.

2-5. Driving information

● If a door is opened and closed when its side window is frozen,
the window safety device will operate and the side window
open/close function linked to door operation may not operate
correctly. If this occurs, perform the following after the ice has
melted.
STEP 1 Open the side window until it is approximately halfway open

with the door closed.
STEP 2 Fully close the window by pulling the switch up to the one-

touch closing position and continue holding the switch for 1
second or more after the window fully closes.
The window position is reset and the safety device operations will
be released.

■ When driving the vehicle
Accelerate the vehicle slowly, keep a safe distance between you
and the vehicle ahead, and drive at a reduced speed suitable to
road conditions.
■ When parking the vehicle (in the winter time or in the cold
latitudes)
Park the vehicle and move the shift lever to P (automatic transmission) or 1 or R (manual transmission) without setting the
parking brake. The parking brake may freeze up, preventing it
from being released. If necessary, block the wheels to prevent
inadvertent sliding or creeping.

262

2-5. Driving information

Tire chains
Tire chains cannot be used on your vehicle because of the lack of
clearance between the tires and vehicle body.
When tire chains cannot be used, use of another type of traction
device (such as spring chains) may be acceptable if use on your vehicle is recommended by the device manufacturer, taking into account
tire size and road conditions.
Follow the device manufacturer's instructions, especially regarding
maximum vehicle speed.

Make certain that any traction device you use is an SAE class “S”
device, and use it on the rear wheels only.
Always use the utmost care when driving with a traction device. Overconfidence because you are using a traction device could easily lead
to a serious accident.
Selecting tire chains
We recommend that you consult your Toyota dealer for information
about the chains that you can use.

263

When driving

To help avoid damage to your vehicle, drive slowly, readjust or
remove the device if it is contacting your vehicle, and do not spin your
wheels. Damage caused to your vehicle by use of a traction device is
not covered under warranty.

2

2-5. Driving information

WARNING
■ Driving with snow tires

Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of accidents.
Failure to do so may result in a loss of vehicle control and cause death or
serious injury.
● Use tires of the specified size, and that are the same size, same

maker, same brand and tread pattern.

● Maintain the recommended level of air pressure.
● Do not drive in excess of 75 mph (120 km/h), regardless of the type of

snow tires being used.

● Use snow tires on all, not just some wheels.

NOTICE
■ Repairing or replacing snow tires

Request repairs or replacement of snow tires from Toyota dealers or
legitimate tire retailers.
This is because the removal and attachment of snow tires affects the
operation of the tire pressure warning valves and transmitters.
■ Fitting tire chains

The tire pressure warning valves and transmitters may not function correctly when tire chains are fitted.

264

2-5. Driving information

Trailer towing
Toyota does not recommend towing a trailer with your vehicle.
Toyota also does not recommend the installation of a tow hitch or
the use of a tow hitch carrier for a wheelchair, scooter, bicycle, etc.
Your Toyota is not designed for trailer towing or for the use of tow
hitch mounted carriers.

2

When driving
265

2-5. Driving information

Dinghy towing
Your vehicle is not designed to be dinghy towed (with 4 wheels on
the ground) behind a motor home.

NOTICE
■ To avoid serious damage to your vehicle
Do not tow your vehicle with four wheels on the ground.

266

Interior features

3-1. Using the air
conditioning system
and defogger
Manual air conditioning
system ........................... 268
Automatic air conditioning
system ........................... 275
Rear window and outside
rear view mirror
defoggers....................... 284
3-2. Using the audio system
Using the AUX/
USB port ........................ 286
Steering wheel audio
switches ......................... 287
Using the microphone ...... 288

3
3-4. Using the storage
features
List of storage features .... 291
• Glove box....................... 292
• Bottle holders ................. 293
• Cup holders/
console tray ................... 294
3-5. Other interior features
Sun visors ........................ 296
Vanity mirrors................... 297
Clock ................................ 298
Power outlets ................... 299
Seat heaters..................... 301
Floor mat.......................... 303

3-3. Using the interior lights
Interior lights list ............... 289
• Interior light .................... 290

267

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Manual air conditioning system

Air outlet selection dial

Temperature control dial

Outside air or recirculated air mode

Air conditioning on/off button

Fan speed control dial

Adjusting the settings
STEP 1 To adjust the fan speed, turn the fan speed control dial clock-

wise (increase) or counterclockwise (decrease).
Turning the dial to “0” turns off the fan.
STEP 2 To adjust the temperature setting, turn the temperature control

dial clockwise (warm) or counterclockwise (cool).
is not pressed, the system will blow ambient temperature air
or heated air.
STEP 3 To select the air outlets, set the air outlet selection dial to the

desired position.
The positions between the air outlet selections shown below can
also be selected for more delicate adjustment.

: If equipped
268

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Defogging the windshield
STEP 1

Set the air outlet selection dial to
position.
The air intake is automatically
switched to outside air mode. It is
not possible to return to recirculated air mode when the switch is
on.

STEP 2 Perform the following operations accordingly:

● To adjust the fan speed, turn the fan speed control dial.

3

● If the dehumidification function is not operating, press
to operate the dehumidification function.
To defog the windshield and the side windows early, turn the
air flow and temperature up.

269

Interior features

● To adjust the temperature setting, turn the temperature control dial.

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

■ Air outlets and air flow
Air flows to the upper body.

Air flows to the upper body and
feet.

Air flows to the feet.

Air flows to the feet and the
windshield defogger operates.
The air intake is automatically
switched to outside air mode. It is
not possible to return to recirculated air mode when the switch is
on.

270

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Switching between outside air and recirculated air modes
Press

.

The mode switches between outside air mode (introduces air from outside the vehicle) (indicator off) and recirculated air mode (recycles air
inside the vehicle) (indicator on) each time the button is pressed.

Adjusting the position of the air outlets
Center outlets
Direct air flow to the left or right,
up or down.

3

Interior features

Right and left side outlets
Direct air flow to the left or right,
up or down.
When defrosting the side windows, face the right and left side
outlets toward them.

271

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Opening and closing the air outlets
Center outlets
Open the air outlet.
Close the air outlet.

Right and left side outlets
Open the vent.
Close the vent.

272

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

■ For quick cooling
Turn the temperature control dial to the “MAX A/C” position and select the
recirculated air mode.
■ Fogging up of the windows
● The windows will easily fog up when the humidity in the vehicle is high.
Turning

on will dehumidify the air from the outlets and defog the

windshield effectively.
● If you turn

off, the windows may fog up more easily.

● The windows may fog up if the recirculated air mode is used.

3

■ When driving on dusty roads

■ Outside/recirculated air mode
Setting to the recirculated air mode temporarily is recommended in preventing dirty air from entering the vehicle interior and helping to cool the vehicle
when the outside air temperature is high.
■ When the outside temperature falls to nearly 32°F (0°C)
The dehumidification function may not operate even when
pressed.

is

■ Ventilation and air conditioning odors
● To let fresh air in, set the air conditioning system to the outside air mode.
● During use, various odors from inside and outside the vehicle may enter
into and accumulate in the air conditioning system. This may then cause
odor to be emitted from the vents.
● To reduce potential odors from occurring:
It is recommended that the air conditioning system be set to outside air
mode prior to turning the vehicle off.
■ Air conditioning filter
P. 360
273

Interior features

Close all windows. If dust thrown up by the vehicle is still drawn into the vehicle after closing the windows, it is recommended that the air intake mode be
set to outside air mode and the fan speed to any setting except off.

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

WARNING
■ To prevent the windshield from fogging up
Do not set the air outlet selection dial to
during cool air operation in
extremely humid weather. The difference between the temperature of the
outside air and that of the windshield can cause the outer surface of the
windshield to fog up, blocking your vision.

NOTICE
■ To prevent battery discharge
Do not leave the air conditioning system on longer than necessary when the
engine is stopped.

274

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Automatic air conditioning system
Air outlets are automatically selected and fan speed is automatically
adjusted according to the set temperature setting.
Temperature control dial*1
Changes the air outlets used
Fan speed control dial
Temperature control dial*2
Temperature setting
display*1

Fan speed/Air
outlet display

Temperature setting
display*2

3

Off

Interior features

Automatic
mode

Windshield defogger

Dual operation button

Air conditioning on/off button

Outside air or recirculated air mode

*1: For the driver’s side
*2: For the front passenger’s side

: If equipped
275

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Using the automatic air conditioning system

STEP 1 Press

.

The dehumidification function begins to operate. Air outlets,
fan speed and the air conditioner compressor are automatically adjusted according to the temperature setting.
STEP 2 Turn temperature control dial clockwise to increase the tem-

perature and turn temperature control dial counterclockwise to
decrease the temperature on the driver’s side.
When

is pressed (the indicator on

is on) or the pas-

senger’s side temperature control dial is turned, the temperature for
the driver and passenger seats can be adjusted separately.

■ Automatic mode indicator
If the fan speed setting or air flow modes are operated, the automatic mode indicator goes off. However, automatic mode for functions other than that operated is maintained.

276

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Adjusting the settings manually
STEP 1 To adjust the fan speed, turn the fan speed control dial clock-

wise (increase) or counter-clock wise (decrease).
Press

to turn the fan off.

STEP 2 To adjust the temperature settings, turn the temperature con-

trol dial clockwise (warm) or counter-clock wise (cool).
To adjust the temperature control dial clockwise (warm) or counterclockwise (cool) on the passenger side to separately adjust the temperature for the passenger and driver sides (dual mode).
Press

(the indicator on

turns off) to return the driver

The air conditioning system switches between dual and simultaneous modes each time

is pressed.

STEP 3 To change the air outlets, press

.

The air outlets used are switched each time either side of the button
is pressed.

277

Interior features

and passenger side temperatures to the same setting (simultaneous
mode).

3

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Defogging the windshield
Press

.

The dehumidification function
operates
and
fan
speed
increases.
Set the outside/recirculated air
mode button to outside air mode
if the recirculated air mode is
used. (It may switch automatically.)
To defog the windshield and the
side windows early, turn the air
flow and temperature up.
To return to the previous mode,
press

again when the

windshield is defogged.

278

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Air outlets and air flow
Air flows to the upper body.

Air flows to the upper body and
feet.

3

Interior features

Air flows to the feet.

Air flows to the feet and the
windshield defogger operates.
If the recirculated air mode is
used, it may automatically switch
to the outside air mode.

279

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Switching between outside air mode and recirculated air mode
Press

.

The mode switches between outside air mode (indicator off) and recirculated air mode (indicator on) each time

is pressed.

Adjusting the position of the air outlets
Center outlets
Direct air flow to the left or right,
up or down.

Right and left side outlets
Direct air flow to the left or right,
up or down.
When defrosting the side windows, face the right and left side
outlets toward them.

280

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Opening and closing the air outlets
Center outlets
Open the air outlet.
Close the air outlet.

Right and left side outlets

3

Open the vent.

Interior features

Close the vent.

281

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

■ Using automatic mode
Fan speed is adjusted automatically according to the temperature setting
and the ambient conditions.
Therefore, the fan may stop for a while until warm or cool air is ready to flow
immediately after

is pressed.

■ Fogging up of the windows
● The windows will easily fog up when the humidity in the vehicle is high.
Turning

on will dehumidify the air from the outlets and defog the

windshield effectively.
● If you turn

off, the windows may fog up more easily.

● The windows may fog up if the recirculated air mode is used.
■ Outside/recirculated air mode
● When driving on dusty roads such as tunnels or in heavy traffic, set the
outside/recirculated air mode button to the recirculated air mode. This is
effective in preventing outside air from entering the vehicle interior.
During cooling operation, setting the recirculated air mode will also cool
the vehicle interior effectively.
● Outside/recirculated air mode may automatically switch depending on
the temperature setting or the inside temperature.
■ When the outside temperature falls to nearly 32F (0C)
The dehumidification function may not operate even when
pressed.

282

is

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

■ Ventilation and air conditioning odors
● To let fresh air in, set the air conditioning system to the outside air mode.
● During use, various odors from inside and outside the vehicle may enter
into and accumulate in the air conditioning system. This may then cause
odor to be emitted from the vents.
● To reduce potential odors from occurring:
• It is recommended that the air conditioning system be set to outside air
mode prior to turning the vehicle off.
• The start timing of the blower may be delayed for a short period of time
immediately after the air conditioning system is started in automatic
mode.
■ Air conditioning filter
P. 360

3

■ To prevent the windshield from fogging up
Do not use

during cool air operation in extremely humid weather. The

difference between the temperature of the outside air and that of the windshield can cause the outer surface of the windshield to fog up, blocking your
vision.

NOTICE
■ To prevent battery discharge
Do not leave the air conditioning system on longer than necessary when the
engine is stopped.

283

Interior features

WARNING

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

Rear window and outside rear view mirror defoggers
The rear window defogger is used to defog the rear window. The outside rear view mirror defoggers* are used to remove frost, dew or
raindrops from the outside rear view mirrors.

Vehicles with a manual air conditioning system
On/off
The defoggers will automatically turn off after approximately 15 minutes.

Vehicles with an automatic air conditioning system
On/off
The defoggers will automatically turn off after approximately 15 minutes.

*: Vehicles with outside rear view mirror defoggers

284

3-1. Using the air conditioning system and defogger

■ The defoggers can be operated when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode.
■ The outside rear view mirror defoggers (vehicles with outside rear view
mirror defoggers)
Turning the rear window defogger on will turn the outside rear view mirror
defoggers on.
■ When continuous operation is set (vehicles with an automatic air conditioning system)

■ Customization that can be configured at Toyota dealer (vehicles with
an automatic air conditioning system)
The rear window defogger can be set to 15-minute operation or continuous
operation. (Customizable features P. 487)

WARNING
■ When the outside rear view mirror defoggers are on (vehicles with outside rear view mirror defoggers)
Do not touch the outside surface of the rear view mirrors, as they can
become very hot and burn you.

NOTICE
■ To prevent battery discharge
Do not leave the rear window defogger on longer than necessary when the
engine is stopped.

285

3

Interior features

During continuous operation, the defogger stops operating for 2 minutes
after every 15 minutes of continual operation. Even during the 2 minutes that
operation stops, the operating light remains illuminated. The rear window
defogger will continue to operate in this cycle until it is turned off.

3-2. Using the audio system

Using the AUX/USB port
This port can be used to connect a portable audio device and listen
to it through the vehicle’s speakers.
Depending on the type of portable audio device, some device operation may not be available.

Open the cover and connect
the portable audio device.

■ Operating portable audio devices connected to the audio system
The volume and sound quality can be adjusted using the vehicle’s audio
controls. All other adjustments must be made on the portable audio device
itself.
■ When using a portable audio device connected to the power outlet
Noise may occur during playback. Use the battery power source of the portable audio device to reduce noise.

286

3-2. Using the audio system

Steering wheel audio switches
Some audio features can be controlled using the switches on the
steering wheel.
Operation may differ depending on the type of audio system or navigation system. For details, refer to the manual provided with the
audio system or navigation system.

3

To reduce the risk of an accident, exercise care when operating the audio
switches on the steering wheel.

287

Interior features

WARNING

3-2. Using the audio system

Using the microphone
The microphone can be used for the voice command in the
Bluetooth® audio system or the hands-free phone system.
Operation may differ depending on the type of audio system or navigation system. For details, refer to the manual provided with the
audio system or navigation system.

288

3-3. Using the interior lights

Interior lights list

3

Interior features

Interior light (P. 290)
Engine switch light (vehicles without a smart key system)
“ENGINE START STOP” switch light (vehicles with a smart key
system)

289

3-3. Using the interior lights
Interior light

Interior light
Turns the light off
Turns the door position on
Turns the light on

■ Illuminated entry system
Vehicles without a smart key system
The lights automatically turn on/off according to the engine switch position,
whether the doors are locked/unlocked, and whether the doors are open/
closed.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The lights automatically turn on/off according to “ENGINE START STOP”
switch mode, the presence of the electronic key, whether the doors are
locked/unlocked, and whether the doors are open/closed.
■ To prevent battery discharge
If the following lights remain on when the door is not fully closed, the lights
will go off automatically after 20 minutes:
● Interior light (when the switch is in the “DOOR” position)
● Engine switch light (vehicles without a smart key system)
● “ENGINE START STOP” switch light (vehicles with a smart key system)
■ Customization that can be configured at Toyota dealer
Settings (e.g. the time elapsed before lights turn off) can be changed.
(Customizable features P. 487)

290

3-4. Using the storage features

List of storage features

3

Interior features

Glove box
Bottle holders
Cup holders/console tray

WARNING
■ Items that should not be left in the storage spaces
Do not leave glasses, lighters or spray cans in the storage spaces, as this
may cause the following when cabin temperature becomes high:
● Glasses may be deformed by heat or cracked if they come into contact
with other stored items.
● Lighters or spray cans may explode. If they come into contact with other
stored items, the lighter may catch fire or the spray can may release gas,
causing a fire hazard.

291

3-4. Using the storage features
Glove box

Glove box
Pull up the lever to open the
glove box.

WARNING
■ Caution while driving
Keep the glove box closed. In the event of sudden braking or sudden swerving, an accident may occur due to an occupant being struck by the open
glove box or the items stored inside.

292

3-4. Using the storage features
Bottle holders

Bottle holders

■ When using the bottle holder

3

● When storing a bottle, close the cap.
Interior features

● The bottle may not be stored depending on its size or shape.

WARNING
■ Items unsuitable for the bottle holder
Do not place anything other than a pet bottle in the bottle holders.
Other items may be thrown out of the holders in the event of an accident or
sudden braking and cause injury.

NOTICE
■ Items unsuitable for the bottle holder
Put the cap on before stowing a bottle. Do not place open bottles in the bottle holders, or glasses and paper cups containing liquid. The contents may
spill and glasses may break.

293

3-4. Using the storage features
Cup holders/console tray

Cup holders/console tray

■ Changing the cup holder position
Remove the cup holder and change the
holder position.

■ Changing the console tray size
Remove the cup holder.

294

3-4. Using the storage features
Cup holders/console tray

WARNING
■ Caution while driving
Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury.
● Before driving, place the cup holder in the rear position so that it does not
hinder shift lever operation.
● When placing the cup holder, make
sure it is facing the correct direction.
Failure to do so will cause the cup
holder to not be secure in the console
tray and hinder shift lever operation.
3

Do not place anything other than cups or aluminum cans in the cup holders.
Other items may be thrown out of the holders in the event of an accident or
sudden braking, causing injury. If possible, cover hot drinks to prevent burns.

295

Interior features

■ Items unsuitable for the cup holder

3-5. Other interior features

Sun visors
To set the visor in the forward position, flip it down.
To set the visor in the side
position, flip down, unhook,
and swing it to the side.

296

3-5. Other interior features

Vanity mirrors
Open the cover to use.

3

Interior features
297

3-5. Other interior features

Clock
The clock can be adjusted by pressing the buttons.

Adjusts the hours
Adjusts the minutes
Rounds
hour*

to

the

nearest

*: e.g.1:00 to 1:29  1:00
00

1:30 to 1:59  2:00

■ The clock is displayed when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in ACCESSORY or IGNITION ON
mode.
■ When disconnecting and reconnecting battery terminals
The clock data will be reset.

298

3-5. Other interior features

Power outlets
The power outlet can be used for 12 V accessories that run on 10 A
or less.

In the console tray

3

In the glove box

Interior features
299

3-5. Other interior features

■ The power outlet can be used when
Vehicles without a smart key system
The engine switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in ACCESSORY or IGNITION ON
mode.
■ When turning the engine switch off
Disconnect electrical devices with charging functions, such as mobile battery
packs.
If such devices are left connected, the engine switch may not be turned off
normally.

NOTICE
■ To avoid damaging the power outlet
Close the power outlet lid when the power outlet is not in use.
Foreign objects or liquids that enter the power outlet may cause a short circuit.
■ To prevent the fuse from being blown
Do not use an accessory that uses more than 12 V 10 A.
■ To prevent battery discharge
Do not use the power outlet longer than necessary when the engine is not
running.

300

3-5. Other interior features

Seat heaters
Press the switch to warm the
seats.
The indicator light comes on
when a seat heater is turned
on.

Rapid heating
Normal heating

■ The seat heaters can be used when

3

The “ENGINE START STOP” switch is in IGNITION ON mode.

Interior features

■ When not in use
Turn the seat heater off. The indicator light goes off.

: If equipped
301

3-5. Other interior features

WARNING
■ Burns
● Use caution when seating the following persons in a seat with the seat
heater on to avoid the possibility of burns:
• Babies, small children, the elderly, the sick and the physically challenged
• Persons with sensitive skin
• Persons who are fatigued
• Persons who have taken alcohol or drugs that induce sleep (sleeping
drugs, cold remedies, etc.)
● Do not cover the seat with anything when using the seat heater.
Using the seat heater with a blanket or cushion increases the temperature
of the seat and may lead to overheating.
● Do not use the seat heater more than necessary. Doing so may cause
minor burns or overheating.

NOTICE
■ To prevent seat heater damage
Do not put heavy objects that have an uneven surface on the seat and do
not stick sharp objects (needles, nails, etc.) into the seat.
■ To prevent battery discharge
Turn the seat heaters off when the engine is not running.

302

3-5. Other interior features

Floor mat
Use only floor mats designed specifically for vehicles of the same
model and model year as your vehicle. Fix them securely in place
onto the carpet.

Front
Driver’s seat floor mat
Front passenger’s seat floor
mat
Retaining hook (clip) eyelets
Rear
Rear seat floor mats

3

■ Installing the floor mats (front)

STEP 2

*

Turn the upper knob of each
retaining hook (clip) to secure
the floor mats in place.

*: Always align the  marks.

The shape of the retaining hooks (clips) may differ from that shown in the
illustration.

303

Interior features

Insert the retaining hooks
(clips) into the floor mat eyelets.

STEP 1

3-5. Other interior features

WARNING
Observe the following precautions.
Failure to do so may cause the driver's floor mat to slip, possibly interfering
with the pedals while driving. An unexpectedly high speed may result or it may
become difficult to stop the vehicle. This could lead to an accident, resulting in
death or serious injury.
■ When installing a floor mat
● Do not use floor mats designed for other models or different model year
vehicles, even if they are Toyota Genuine floor mats.
● Driver’s seat floor mat: Only use floor mats designed for the driver's seat.
● Front: Always install the floor mat securely using the retaining hooks (clips)
provided.
● Do not use two or more floor mats on top of each other.
● Do not place the floor mat bottom-side up or upside-down.
■ Before driving
● Front: Check that the floor mat is
securely fixed in the correct place with
all the provided retaining hooks (clips).
Be especially careful to perform this
check after cleaning the floor.
● Driver’s seat: With the engine stopped
and the shift lever in P (automatic transmission) or N (manual transmission),
fully depress each pedal to the floor to
make sure it does not interfere with the
floor mat.

304

3-5. Other interior features

NOTICE
■ When installing a rear floor mat
Make sure that the rear floor mats are
installed in the correct position. If a floor
mat is positioned incorrectly, it may interfere with the seat rail or other parts when
a front seat is moved forward or backward, damaging the vehicle or floor mat.

3

Interior features
305

3-5. Other interior features

306

Maintenance and care

4-1. Maintenance and care
Cleaning and protecting
the vehicle exterior......... 308
Cleaning and protecting
the vehicle interior.......... 312
Cleaning and protecting
the Alcantara® area ....... 316
4-2. Maintenance
Maintenance
requirements.................. 318
General maintenance....... 320
Emission inspection and
maintenance (I/M)
programs........................ 323

4
4-3. Do-it-yourself
maintenance
Do-it-yourself service
precautions .................... 324
Hood ................................ 327
Positioning a floor jack ..... 329
Engine compartment........ 331
Tires ................................. 345
Tire inflation pressure ...... 353
Wheels ............................. 357
Air conditioning filter......... 360
Wireless remote control/
electronic key battery ..... 363
Checking and replacing
fuses .............................. 367
Light bulbs........................ 375

307

4-1. Maintenance and care

Cleaning and protecting the vehicle exterior
Perform the following to protect the vehicle and maintain it in prime
condition.

● Working from top to bottom, liberally apply water to the vehicle
body, wheel wells and underside of the vehicle to remove any
dirt and dust.
● Wash the vehicle body using a sponge or soft cloth, such as a
chamois.
● For hard-to-remove marks, use car wash soap and rinse thoroughly with water.
● Wipe away any water.
● Wax the vehicle when the waterproof coating deteriorates.
If water does not bead on a clean surface, apply wax when the vehicle
body is cool.

■ Automatic car washes
● Fold the mirrors before washing the vehicle. Start washing from the front
of the vehicle. Make sure to extend the mirrors before driving.
● Brushes used in automatic car washes may scratch the vehicle surface
and harm your vehicle’s paint.
■ High pressure car washes
As water may enter the cabin, do not bring the nozzle tip near the gaps
around the doors or perimeter of the windows, or spray these areas continuously.

308

4-1. Maintenance and care

■ Aluminum wheels
● Remove any dirt immediately by using a neutral detergent.
● Wash detergent off with water immediately after use.
● To protect the paint from damage, make sure to observe the following
precautions.
• Do not use acidic, alkaline or abrasive detergent
• Do not use hard brushes
• Do not use detergent on the wheels when they are hot, such as after
driving or parking in hot weather
■ Brake (vehicles with brembo brake)
● Painted brake calipers
• When using detergent, use neutral detergent. Do not use hard brushes
or abrasive cleaners, as they will damage the paint.
• Do not use detergent on the brake calipers when they are hot.
• Wash detergent off immediately after use.
● Rust may form if the vehicle is parked with wet brake pads or disc rotors,
causing them to stick. Before parking the vehicle after it is washed, drive
slowly and apply the brakes several times to dry the parts.
Do not scrub with abrasive cleaners.
■ Plated portions
If dirt cannot be removed, clean the parts as follows:
● Use a soft cloth dampened with an approximately 5% solution of neutral
detergent and water to clean the dirt off.
● Wipe the surface with a dry, soft cloth to remove any remaining moisture.
● To remove oily deposits, use alcohol wet wipes or a similar product.

309

Maintenance and care

■ Parts containing resin such as the bumper

4

4-1. Maintenance and care

WARNING
■ When washing the vehicle
Do not apply water to the inside of the engine compartment. Doing so may
cause the electrical components etc. to catch fire.
■ Precautions regarding the exhaust pipes
Exhaust gasses cause the exhaust pipes and rear bumper diffusers to
become quite hot.
When washing the vehicle, be careful not to touch the pipes and diffusers
until they have cooled sufficiently, as touching hot exhaust pipes and rear
bumper diffusers can cause burns.

NOTICE
■ To prevent paint deterioration and corrosion on the body and components (aluminum wheels etc.)
● Wash the vehicle immediately in the following cases:
• After driving near the sea coast
• After driving on salted roads
• If you see coal tar or tree sap on the paint surface
• If you see dead insects, insect droppings or bird droppings on the paint
• After driving in an area contaminated with soot, oily smoke, mine dust,
iron powder or chemical substances
• If the vehicle becomes heavily soiled in dust or mud
• If liquids such as benzene and gasoline are spilled on the paint surface
● If the paint is chipped or scratched, have it repaired immediately.
● To prevent the wheels from corroding, remove any dirt and store in a place
with low humidity when storing the wheels.
■ Protective film for side sill plates
Make sure to remove the protective film. Failure to do so may cause rust,
depending on conditions.

310

4-1. Maintenance and care

NOTICE
■ Cleaning the exterior lights
● Wash carefully. Do not use organic substances or scrub with a hard brush.
This may damage the surfaces of the lights.
● Do not apply wax on the surfaces of the lights.
Wax may cause damage to the lenses.
■ To prevent damage to the windshield wiper arms
When lifting the wiper arms away from the windshield, pull the driver side
wiper arm upward first, and repeat for the passenger side. When returning
the wipers to their original position, do so from the passenger side first.
■ When using a high pressure car wash
● Do not bring the nozzle tip close to boots (rubber or resin manufactured
cover), connectors or the following parts. The parts may be damaged if
they come into contact with high-pressure water.

● Do not spray the lower part of the windshield continuously.
If water enters the air conditioning system intake located near the lower
part of the windshield, the air conditioning system may not operate correctly.

311

4

Maintenance and care

• Traction related parts
• Steering parts
• Suspension parts
• Brake parts
● Keep the cleaning nozzle at least 11.9 in. (30 cm) away from the vehicles
body. Otherwise resin section, such as moldings and bumpers, may be
deformed and damaged. Also, do not continuously hold the nozzle in the
same place.

4-1. Maintenance and care

Cleaning and protecting the vehicle interior
The following procedures will help protect your vehicle's interior and
keep it in top condition:

■ Protecting the vehicle interior
● Remove dirt and dust using a vacuum cleaner. Wipe dirty surfaces with a cloth dampened with lukewarm water.
● If dirt cannot be removed, wipe it off with a soft cloth dampened with neural detergent diluted to approximately 1%.
Wring out any excess water from the cloth and thoroughly
wipe off remaining traces of detergent and water.
■ Cleaning the leather areas
● Remove dirt and dust using a vacuum cleaner.
● Wipe any excess dirt and dust with a soft cloth dampened with
diluted detergent.
Use a diluted water solution of approximately 5% neutral wool
detergent.

● Wring out any excess water from the cloth and thoroughly
wipe off all remaining traces of detergent.
● Wipe the surface with a dry, soft cloth to remove any remaining moisture. Allow the leather to dry in a shaded ventilated
area.
■ Cleaning the synthetic leather areas
● Remove dirt and dust using a vacuum cleaner.
● Wipe it off with a soft cloth dampened with neutral detergent
diluted to approximately 1%.
● Wring out any excess water from the cloth and thoroughly
wipe off remaining traces of detergent and water.

312

4-1. Maintenance and care

■ Caring for leather areas
Toyota recommends cleaning the interior of the vehicle at least twice a year
to maintain the quality of the vehicle’s interior.
■ Shampooing the carpets
There are several commercial foaming-type cleaners available. Use a
sponge or brush to apply the foam. Rub in overlapping circles. Do not apply
water. Excellent results are obtained by keeping the carpet as dry as possible.
■ Seat belts
Clean with mild soap and lukewarm water using a cloth or sponge. Also
check the belts periodically for excessive wear, fraying or cuts.

WARNING
■ Water in the vehicle

● Do not get any of the SRS components or wiring in the vehicle interior wet.
(P. 94)
Electrical malfunction may cause the airbags to deploy or not function
properly, resulting in death or severe injury.
■ Cleaning the interior (especially instrument panel)
Do not use polish wax or polish cleaner. The instrument panel may reflect off
the windshield, obstructing the driver's view and leading to an accident,
resulting in death or serious injury.

313

4

Maintenance and care

● Do not splash or spill liquid in the vehicle.
Doing so may cause electrical components etc. to malfunction or catch
fire.

4-1. Maintenance and care

NOTICE
■ Cleaning detergents
● Do not use organic substances such as benzene or gasoline, acidic or
alkaline solutions, dye, bleach or other detergent. Doing so may discolor
the vehicle interior or cause streaks or damage to painted surfaces.
● Do not use polish wax or polish cleaner. The instrument panel's or other
interior part’s painted surface may be damaged.
● Do not use a chemical agent containing silicone (highly-polymerized silicon compound) when cleaning any of the electrical appliances such as the
air conditioning, all switches and their surrounding areas.
If silicon (highly-polymerized silicon compound) contacts these components, it may cause the electrical appliances to malfunction.
■ Preventing damage to leather surfaces
Observe the following precautions to avoid damage to and deterioration of
leather surfaces.
● Remove any dust, dirt, sand, oil spots etc. on leather surfaces immediately.
● Do not expose the vehicle to direct sunlight for extended periods of time.
Park the vehicle in the shade, especially during summer.
● Do not place items made of vinyl, plastic, or that contain wax on the upholstery, as they may stick to the leather surface if the vehicle interior heats
up significantly.
■ Water on the floor
Do not wash the vehicle floor with water.
Vehicle systems such as the audio system may be damaged if water comes
into contact with electrical components under the floor of the vehicle, and
may also cause the body to rust.

314

4-1. Maintenance and care

NOTICE
■ Cleaning the inside of the rear window
● Be careful not to scratch or damage the heater wires.
● Do not use glass cleaner to clean the rear window, as this may cause
damage to the rear window defogger heater wires. Use a cloth dampened
with lukewarm water to gently wipe the window clean. Wipe the window in
strokes running parallel to the heater wires.
■ When cleaning the instrument panel
When small grains of sand and so forth have gotten into instrument panel’s
surface and cannot be wiped away using a cloth, use a clay bar without adding water. Forcibly trying to wipe the surface clean with a brush or sponge
may scratch the surface or fragments of the cloth may be left in the surface.

4

Maintenance and care
315

4-1. Maintenance and care

Cleaning and protecting the Alcantara® area
The following procedures will protect and keep your vehicle’s
Alcantara® upholstery in top condition:

■ Day-to-day cleaning
Perform the following procedures regularly (approximately once
a month).
STEP 1 Wipe the entire Alcantara® area with a soft cloth that has

been dampened with lukewarm water (approximately 104F
[40C]) and squeezed out.
Do not wipe too hard. Doing so may make the Alcantara® upholstery surface become uneven. Also, only use a clean cloth.
STEP 2 Once dry, brush the area with a soft brush.

■ Liquid stains
● If liquid is spilled, lightly pat the area with a tissue paper or
similar to soak up the liquid.
● When mud, coffee, etc., has dried on the Alcantara® upholstery, remove it by lightly brushing the area with a soft brush
or similar.
We recommend using a vacuum cleaner to clean up the area after
the above has been performed.

When a stain cannot be removed using the above procedures,
remove it by performing the following:
STEP 1 Lightly wipe the stained area from the outside to the inside

from multiple angles with a soft cloth that has been dampened with lukewarm water (approximately 104F [40C])
and squeezed out.
Do not wipe the area so strongly that it causes the Alcantara®
upholstery surface to become uneven. Also, prepare a clean
cloth, and always use a clean area of the cloth.

: If equipped
316

4-1. Maintenance and care

the Alcantara® upholstery surface becomes uneven,
lightly brush it with a soft brush.

STEP 2 If

STEP 3 Allow the surface to dry completely.

■ Oil stains
You will need the following items:
● A cloth that has been dampened with benzene
● A dry cloth
STEP 1 Using a dry cloth or tissue paper, wipe away as much of the

oil as possible to prevent the stained area from expanding.
STEP 2 After patting the area from the outside to the inside from

multiple angles using the cloth dampened with benzene,
soak up the oil and benzene that floats up by patting the
area with a dry cloth.
the Alcantara® upholstery surface becomes uneven,
lightly brush it with a soft brush.

STEP 3 If

Remove dirt or dust from the Alcantara® areas by lighting brushing with a
soft brush. If this does not remove the dirt or dust, remove it using adhesive
tape.

NOTICE
■ When soaking up spilled liquids
Do not press down too firmly with the cloth, tissue paper etc., as doing so
may cause the liquid to further penetrate the material, making soaking up
the liquid more difficult.

317

Maintenance and care

■ When removing dirt or dust from the Alcantara® areas

4

4-2. Maintenance

Maintenance requirements
To ensure safe and economical driving, day-to-day care and regular
maintenance is essential. It is the owner’s responsibility to perform
regular checks. Toyota recommends the following maintenance.

■ General maintenance
Should be performed on a daily basis. This can be done by yourself or by a Toyota dealer.
■ Scheduled maintenance
Should be performed at specified intervals according to the
maintenance schedule.
For details about maintenance items and schedules, refer to the
“Scheduled Maintenance Guide” or “Owner’s Manual Supplement”.

■ Do-it-yourself maintenance
You can perform some maintenance procedures yourself.
Please be aware that do-it-yourself maintenance may affect warranty coverage.
The use of Toyota Repair Manuals is recommended.
For details about warranty coverage, see the separate “Owner’s Warranty Information Booklet” or “Owner’s Manual Supplement”.

■ Repair and replacement
It is recommended that genuine Toyota parts be used for repair to ensure
performance of each system. If non-Toyota parts are used in replacement or
if a repair shop other than a Toyota dealer performs repairs, confirm the warranty coverage.

318

4-2. Maintenance

■ Allow inspection and repairs to be performed by a Toyota dealer
● Toyota technicians are well-trained specialists and are kept up to date
with the latest service information. They are well informed about the
operations of all systems on your vehicle.
● Keep a copy of the repair order. It proves that the maintenance that has
been performed is under warranty coverage. If any problem should arise
while your vehicle is under warranty, your Toyota dealer will promptly
take care of it.

WARNING
■ If your vehicle is not properly maintained
It could result in serious damage to the vehicle and possible serious injury or
death.
■ Warning in handling of battery
● Engine exhaust, some of its constituents, and a wide variety of automobile
components contain or emit chemicals known to the State of California to
cause cancer and birth defects and other reproductive harm. Work in a
well ventilated area.

● Battery posts, terminals and related accessories contain lead and lead
compounds which are known to cause brain damage. Wash your hands
after handling. (P. 339)

319

Maintenance and care

● Oils, fuels and fluids contained in vehicles as well as waste produced by
component wear contain or emit chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm. Avoid
exposure and wash any affected area immediately.

4

4-2. Maintenance

General maintenance
Listed below are the general maintenance items that should be performed at the intervals specified in the “Owner's Warranty Information Booklet” or “Owner’s Manual Supplement/Scheduled
Maintenance Guide”. It is recommended that any problem you notice
should be brought to the attention of your Toyota dealer or qualified
service shop for advice.

Engine compartment
Items

320

Check points

Battery

Check the connections.
(P. 339)

Brake fluid

At the correct level?

(P. 337)

Engine coolant

At the correct level?

(P. 335)

Engine oil

At the correct level?

(P. 332)

Exhaust system

No fumes or strange sounds?

Radiator/condenser/hoses

Not blocked with foreign matter?
(P. 337)

Washer fluid

At the correct level?

(P. 343)

4-2. Maintenance

Vehicle interior
Items

Check points

Accelerator pedal

• Moves smoothly (without uneven
pedal effort or catching)?

Automatic transmission “Park”
mechanism

• Can the vehicle be held securely
on an incline with the shift lever in
P?

Brake pedal

• Moves smoothly?
• Does it have appropriate clearance and correct amount of free
play?

Brakes

• Not pull to one side when
applied?
• Loss of brake effectiveness?
• Spongy feeling brake pedal?
• Pedal almost touches floor?
• Moves smoothly?

Head restraints

• Move smoothly and lock
securely?

Indicators/buzzers

• Function properly?

Lights

• Do all the lights come on?

Parking brake

• Moves smoothly?
• Can hold the vehicle securely on
an incline?

Seat belts

• Does the seat belt system operate smoothly?
• Are the belts undamaged?

Seats

• Do the seat controls operate
properly?

Steering wheel

• Moves smoothly?
• Has correct free play?
• No strange noises?

Maintenance and care

Clutch pedal

4

321

4-2. Maintenance

Vehicle exterior
Items

Check points

Door/trunk

• Operate smoothly?

Engine hood

• The lock system works properly?

Fluid leaks

• Is there any leakage after parking?

Tire

• Inflation pressure is correct?
• Tire surfaces not worn or damaged?
• Tires rotated according to the
maintenance schedule?
• Wheel nuts are not loose?

Windshield wipers

• The wiper blades should not show
any signs of cracking, splitting,
wear, contamination or deformation.
• The wiper blades should clear the
windshield without streaking or
skipping.

WARNING
■ If the engine is running
Turn the engine off and ensure that there is adequate ventilation before performing maintenance checks.

322

4-2. Maintenance

Emission inspection and maintenance (I/M) programs
Some states have vehicle emission inspection programs which
include OBD (On Board Diagnostics) checks. The OBD system monitors the operation of the emission control system.

■ If the malfunction indicator lamp comes on
The OBD system determines that a problem exists somewhere
in the emission control system. Your vehicle may not pass the I/
M test and may need to be repaired. Contact your Toyota dealer
to service the vehicle.
■ Your vehicle may not pass the I/M test:
● When the battery is disconnected or discharged
Readiness codes that are set during ordinary driving are
erased.
Also, depending on your driving habits, the readiness codes
may not be completely set.
4

● When the fuel tank cap is loose

■ When the malfunction indicator lamp goes off after several
driving trips
The error code in the OBD system will not be cleared unless the
vehicle is driven 40 or more times.
■ If your vehicle does not pass the I/M test
Contact your Toyota dealer to prepare the vehicle for re-testing.

323

Maintenance and care

The malfunction indicator lamp comes on as a temporary malfunction and your vehicle may not pass the I/M test.

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Do-it-yourself service precautions
If you perform maintenance yourself, be sure to follow the correct
procedure as given in these sections.
Items

Battery condition

Brake fluid level

Engine coolant level

Engine oil level

324

Parts and tools

(P. 339)

• Warm water
• Baking soda
• Grease
• Conventional wrench
(for terminal clamp bolts)
• Distilled water

(P. 337)

• SAE J1703 or FMVSS No.116
DOT 3 brake fluid
• Rag or paper towel
• Funnel (used only for adding
brake fluid)

(P. 335)

• “TOYOTA Genuine 50/50 Premixed Super Long Life Coolant
BLUE” or similar high-quality
ethylene glycol-based nonsilicate, non-amine, non-nitrite
and non-borate coolant with longlife hybrid organic acid
technology.
“TOYOTA Genuine 50/50 Premixed Super Long Life Coolant
BLUE” is pre-mixed with 50%
coolant and 50% deionized
water.
• Funnel (used only for adding
engine coolant)

(P. 332)

• “Toyota Genuine Motor Oil” or
equivalent
• Rag or paper towel, funnel (used
only for adding engine oil)

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Items
Fuses

Light bulbs

Parts and tools
(P. 367)

• Fuse with same amperage rating
as original

(P. 375)

• Bulb with same number and wattage rating as original
• Phillips-head screwdriver
• Flathead screwdriver

Radiator and condenser
(P. 337)



Tire inflation pressure (P. 353)

• Tire pressure gauge
• Compressed air source

Washer fluid

• Water washer fluid containing
antifreeze (for winter use)
• Funnel

(P. 343)

4

Maintenance and care
325

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
The engine compartment contains many mechanisms and fluids that may
move suddenly, become hot, or become electrically energized. To avoid death
or serious injury, observe the following precautions.
■ When working on the engine compartment
● Keep hands, clothing, and tools away from the moving fan and engine
drive belt.
● Be careful not to touch the engine, radiator, exhaust manifold, etc. right
after driving as they may be hot. Oil and other fluids may also be hot.
● Do not leave anything that may burn easily, such as paper or rags, in the
engine compartment.
● Do not smoke, cause sparks or expose an open flame to fuel or the battery. Fuel and battery fumes are flammable.
● Be extremely cautious when working on the battery. It contains poisonous
and corrosive sulfuric acid.
■ When working near the electric cooling fans or radiator grille
Vehicles without a smart key system: Be sure the engine switch is off. With
the engine switch in the “ON” position, the electric cooling fans may automatically start to run if the air conditioning is on and/or the coolant temperature is high. (P. 337)
Vehicles with a smart key system: Be sure the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch is off. With the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in IGNITION ON
mode, the electric cooling fans may automatically start to run if the air conditioning is on and/or the coolant temperature is high. (P. 337)
■ Safety glasses
Wear safety glasses to prevent flying or falling material, fluid spray, etc. from
getting in the eyes.

NOTICE
■ If you remove the air cleaner filter
Driving with the air cleaner filter removed may cause excessive engine wear
due to dirt in the air.

326

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Hood
Release the lock from the inside of the vehicle to open the hood.
STEP 1

Pull the hood release lever.
The hood will pop up slightly.

STEP 2

Push the auxiliary catch lever
to the left and lift the hood.

4

Grip

Hold the hood open by inserting the supporting rod into the
slot.
When holding the supporting
rod, hold it by the grip portion.

327

Maintenance and care

STEP 3

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ Pre-driving check
Check that the hood is fully closed and locked.
If the hood is not locked properly it may open while the vehicle is in motion
and cause an accident, which may result in death or serious injury.

NOTICE
■ When opening the hood
● Do not lift up or operate the wipers. Doing so may cause the hood and wipers to contact, scratching the hood.
● Use caution when opening the hood in windy weather as it may close suddenly in strong wind.
● Do not attach any accessories other than genuine Toyota products to the
hood. Such additional weight on the hood may cause it to be too heavy to
be supported by the supporting rod when opened.
■ When closing the hood
Do not apply excessive weight or force when closing the hood as doing so
may result in damage.

328

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Positioning a floor jack
When raising your vehicle with a floor jack, position the jack correctly. Improper placement may damage your vehicle or cause injury.

■ Front

■ Rear

4

Maintenance and care
329

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ When raising your vehicle
Make sure to observe the following precautions to reduce the possibility of
death or serious injury:
● Lift up the vehicle using a floor jack
such as the one shown in the illustration.

● When using a floor jack, follow the instructions of the manual provided with
the jack.
● Do not use the jack that was supplied with your vehicle.
● Do not put any part of your body underneath the vehicle when it is supported only by the floor jack.
● Always use floor jack and/or automotive jack stands on a solid, flat, level
surface.
● Do not start the engine while the vehicle is supported by the floor jack.
● Stop the vehicle on level, firm ground, firmly set the parking brake and shift
the shift lever to P (vehicles with an automatic transmission) or R (vehicles
with a manual transmission).
● Make sure to set the floor jack properly at the jack point.
Raising the vehicle with an improperly positioned floor jack will damage
the vehicle and may cause the vehicle to fall off the floor jack.
● Do not raise the vehicle while someone is in the vehicle.
● When raising the vehicle, do not place any object on top of or underneath
the floor jack.
● When raising the vehicle, ensure that there is sufficient surrounding space.
The vehicle’s position may change slightly when lowered.

330

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Engine compartment

Battery

(P. 339)

(P. 343)

Maintenance and care

Engine oil level dipstick
(P. 332)

4

Washer fluid tank
Electric cooling fans

Brake fluid reservoir
(P. 337)

Condenser

(P. 337)

Radiator

(P. 337)

Engine oil filler cap
(P. 333)

Engine coolant reservoir
(P. 335)
Fuse box

(P. 367)

331

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Engine oil
With the engine at operating temperature and turned off, check the oil
level on the dipstick.
■ Checking the engine oil
STEP 1 Park the vehicle on level ground. After warming up the engine

and turning it off, wait more than five minutes for the oil to
drain back into the bottom of the engine.
Hold a rag under the end and
pull the dipstick out.

STEP 2

STEP 3 Wipe the dipstick clean.
STEP 4 Reinsert the dipstick fully.
STEP 5 Holding a rag under the end, pull the dipstick out and check

the oil level.
When checking the oil, look at both sides of the dipstick and use the
lower measurement to determine the level of oil.
STEP 6 Wipe the dipstick and reinsert it fully.

Low
Full

332

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Adding engine oil
If the oil level is below or near
the low level mark, add engine
oil of the same type as already in
the engine.

Make sure to check the oil type and prepare the items needed before
adding oil.
Engine oil
selection

P. 462

Oil quantity
(Low  Full)

1.1 qt. (1.0 L, 0.9 Imp. qt.)

Items

4

Clean funnel
Maintenance and care

STEP 1 Remove the oil filler cap by turning it counterclockwise.
STEP 2 Add engine oil slowly, checking the dipstick.
STEP 3 Install the oil filler cap by turning it clockwise.

333

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Engine oil consumption
A certain amount of engine oil will be consumed while driving. In the following situations, oil consumption may increase, and engine oil may need to be
refilled in between oil maintenance intervals.
● When the engine is new, for example directly after purchasing the vehicle
or after replacing the engine
● If low quality oil or oil of an inappropriate viscosity is used
● When driving at high engine speeds or with a heavy load, or when driving
while accelerating or decelerating frequently
● When leaving the engine idling for a long time, or when driving frequently
through heavy traffic

WARNING
■ Used engine oil
● Used engine oil contains potentially harmful contaminants which may
cause skin disorders such as inflammation or skin cancer, so care should
be taken to avoid prolonged and repeated contact. To remove used engine
oil from your skin, wash thoroughly with soap and water.
● Dispose of used oil and filters only in a safe and acceptable manner. Do
not dispose of used oil and filters in household trash, in sewers or onto the
ground.
Call your Toyota dealer, service station or auto parts store for information
concerning recycling or disposal.
● Do not leave used engine oil within the reach of children.

334

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

NOTICE
■ To prevent serious engine damage
Check the oil level on a regular basis.
■ When replacing the engine oil
● Be careful not to spill engine oil on the vehicle components.
● Avoid overfilling, or the engine could be damaged.
● Check the oil level on the dipstick every time you refill the vehicle.
● Be sure the engine oil filler cap is properly tightened.

Engine coolant
The coolant level is satisfactory if it is between the “FULL” and “LOW”
lines on the reservoir when the engine is cold.
Reservoir cap

4

“FULL”
If the level is on or below the
“LOW” line, add coolant up to the
“FULL” line.

■ If the coolant level drops within a short time after replenishing
Visually check the radiator, hoses, engine coolant filler cap, radiator cap,
drain cock and water pump.
If you cannot find a leak, have your Toyota dealer pressure test the cap and
check for leaks in the cooling system.

335

Maintenance and care

“LOW”

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Coolant selection
Only use “TOYOTA Genuine 50/50 Pre-mixed Super Long Life Coolant
BLUE” or similar high-quality ethylene glycol-based non-silicate, non-amine,
non-nitrite, and non-borate coolant with long-life hybrid organic acid technology.
“TOYOTA Genuine 50/50 Pre-mixed Super Long Life Coolant BLUE” is a
mixture of 50% coolant and 50% deionized water. (Enabled: -31F [-35C])
For more details about engine coolant, contact your Toyota dealer.

WARNING
■ When the engine is hot
Do not remove the radiator cap.
The cooling system may be under pressure and may spray hot coolant if the
cap is removed, causing serious injuries, such as burns.

NOTICE
■ When adding engine coolant
Coolant is neither plain water nor straight antifreeze. The correct mixture of
water and antifreeze must be used to provide proper lubrication, corrosion
protection and cooling. Be sure to read the antifreeze or coolant label.
■ If you spill coolant
Be sure to wash it off with water to prevent it from damaging parts or paint.

336

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Radiator and condenser
Check the radiator and condenser and clear away any foreign
objects.
If either of the above parts are extremely dirty or you are not sure of
their condition, have your vehicle checked by your Toyota dealer.
WARNING
■ When the engine is hot
Do not touch the radiator or condenser as they may be hot and cause serious injuries, such as burns.

Brake fluid
■ Checking fluid level

“MAX”
“MIN”

337

4

Maintenance and care

The brake fluid level should be
between the “MAX” and “MIN”
lines on the tank.

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Adding fluid
Make sure to check the fluid type and prepare the necessary items.
Fluid type
Items

SAE J1703 or FMVSS No.116 DOT 3
Clean funnel

■ Brake fluid can absorb moisture from the air
Excess moisture in the fluid can cause a dangerous loss of braking efficiency. Use only newly opened brake fluid.

WARNING
■ When filling the reservoir
Take care because brake fluid can harm your hands or eyes and damage
painted surfaces.
If fluid gets in your eyes, flush your eyes with clean water immediately.
If you still experience discomfort, see a doctor.

NOTICE
■ If the fluid level is low or high
It is normal for the brake fluid level to go down slightly as the brake pads
wear or when the fluid level in the accumulator is high.
If the reservoir needs frequent refilling, it may indicate a serious problem.

338

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Battery
Check the battery as follows.
■ Battery exterior
Make sure that the battery terminals are not corroded and that
there are no loose connections, cracks, or loose clamps.
Hold-down clamp
Terminals

■ Checking battery fluid

4

“UPPER LEVEL”
“LOWER LEVEL”
If the fluid level is at or below
“LOWER LEVEL”, add distilled
water.

339

Maintenance and care

Check that the level is between
“UPPER LEVEL” and “LOWER
LEVEL”.

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Adding distilled water
Low

O.K.

STEP 1 Remove the vent plug.
STEP 2 Add distilled water.

If the “UPPER LEVEL” line cannot be seen, check the fluid level by
looking directly at the cell.
STEP 3 Put the vent plug back on and close securely.

■ Before recharging
When recharging, the battery produces hydrogen gas which is flammable
and explosive. Therefore, before recharging:
● If recharging with the battery installed on the vehicle, be sure to disconnect the ground cable.
● Make sure the power switch on the charger is off when connecting and
disconnecting the charger cables to the battery.

340

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ After recharging/reconnecting the battery (vehicles with a smart key
system)
● Unlocking the doors using the smart key system may not be possible
immediately after reconnecting the battery. If this happens, use the wireless remote control or the mechanical key to lock/unlock the doors.
● Start the engine with the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in ACCESSORY mode. The engine may not start with the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch turned off. However, the engine will operate normally from the second attempt.
● The “ENGINE START STOP” switch mode is recorded by the vehicle. If
the battery is reconnected, the vehicle will return the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch mode to the status it was in before the battery was disconnected. Make sure to turn off the engine before disconnect the battery.
Take extra care when connecting the battery if the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch mode prior to discharge is unknown.
If the engine will not start even after multiple attempts, contact your Toyota
dealer.
4

Maintenance and care
341

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ Chemicals in the battery
A battery contains poisonous and corrosive sulfuric acid and may produce
hydrogen gas which is flammable and explosive. To reduce the risk of death
or serious injury, take the following precautions while working on or near the
battery:
● Do not cause sparks by touching the battery terminals with tools.
● Do not smoke or light a match near the battery.
● Avoid contact with eyes, skin and clothes.
● Never inhale or swallow electrolyte.
● Wear protective safety glasses when working near the battery.
● Keep children away from the battery.
■ Where to safely charge the battery
Always charge the battery in an open area. Do not charge the battery in a
garage or closed room where there is not sufficient ventilation.
■ Emergency measures regarding electrolyte
● If electrolyte gets in your eyes
Flush your eyes with clean water for at least 15 minutes and get immediate medical attention. If possible, continue to apply water with a sponge or
cloth while traveling to the nearest medical facility.
● If electrolyte gets on your skin
Wash the affected area thoroughly. If you feel pain or burning, get medical
attention immediately.
● If electrolyte gets on your clothes
It can soak through clothing on to your skin. Immediately take off the clothing and follow the procedure above if necessary.
● If you accidentally swallow electrolyte
Drink a large quantity of water or milk. Get emergency medical attention
immediately.

342

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

NOTICE
■ When recharging the battery
Never recharge the battery while the engine is running. Also, be sure all
accessories are turned off.
■ When adding distilled water
Avoid overfilling. Water spilled during battery recharging may cause corrosion.

Washer fluid
If the washer fluid level is at
“LOW”, add washer fluid.

4

Current
fluid level

The washer fluid level can be checked by
observing the position of the level on the
liquid-covered holes in the gauge.
If the level falls below the second hole
from the bottom (the “LOW” position),
refill the washer fluid.

CTH43AS134

343

Maintenance and care

■ Using the gauge

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ When adding washer fluid
Do not add washer fluid when the engine is hot or running, as washer fluid
contains alcohol and may catch fire if spilled on the engine etc.

NOTICE
■ Washer fluid
Do not use soapy water or engine antifreeze instead of washer fluid.
Doing so may cause streaking on the vehicle’s painted surfaces, as well as
damaging the pump leading to problems of the washer fluid not spraying.
■ Diluting washer fluid
Dilute washer fluid with water as necessary.
Refer to the freezing temperatures listed on the label of the washer fluid bottle.

344

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Tires
Replace or rotate tires in accordance with maintenance schedules and treadwear.

■ Checking tires
Check if the treadwear indicators are showing on the tires. Also
check the tires for uneven wear, such as excessive wear on one
side of the tread.
Check the spare tire condition and pressure if not rotated.

4

New tread
Treadwear indicator
The location of treadwear indicators is shown by a “TWI” or “” mark,
etc., molded into the sidewall of each tire.
Replace the tires if the treadwear indicators are showing on a tire.

■ Tire rotation
Rotate the tires in the order
shown.

Front

To equalize tire wear and
extend tire life, Toyota recommends that tire rotation is
carried out at the same interval as tire inspection.

345

Maintenance and care

Worn tread

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ The tire pressure warning system
Your Toyota is equipped with a tire pressure warning system that
uses tire pressure warning valves and transmitters to detect low
tire inflation pressure before serious problems arise.
(P. 400)

Installing tire pressure warning valves and transmitters
When replacing tires or wheels, tire pressure warning valves and
transmitters must also be installed.
When new tire pressure warning valves and transmitters are
installed, new tire pressure warning valve and transmitter ID codes
must be registered in the tire pressure warning computer and tire
pressure warning system must be initialized. Have tire pressure
warning valve and transmitter ID codes registered by your Toyota
dealer. (P. 346)
Registering ID codes
The tire pressure warning valve and transmitter is equipped with a
unique ID code. When replacing a tire pressure warning valve and
transmitter, it is necessary to register the ID code. Have the ID code
registered by your Toyota dealer.

346

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ When to replace your vehicle’s tires

Tires should be replaced if:
● The treadwear indicators are showing on a tire.
● You have tire damage such as cuts, splits, cracks deep enough to

expose the fabric or bulges indicating internal damage

● A tire goes flat repeatedly or cannot be properly repaired due to the

size or location of a cut or other damage

If you are not sure, consult with your Toyota dealer.
■ Replacing tires and wheels

If the ID code of the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter is not
registered, the tire pressure warning system will not work properly. After
driving for about 20 minutes, the tire pressure warning light comes on
after blinking for 1 minute to indicate a system malfunction.
■ Tire life

Any tire over 6 years old must be checked by a qualified technician even
if they have seldom or never been used or damage is not obvious.
The effectiveness of snow tires is lost.
■ Low profile tires

Generally, low profile tires will wear more rapidly and tire grip performance will be reduced on snowy and/or icy roads when compared to
standard tires. Be sure to use snow tires or tire chains on snowy and/or
icy roads and drive carefully at a speed appropriate for road and weather
conditions.

347

Maintenance and care

■ If the tread wears down below 0.16 in. (4 mm) on snow tires

4

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Maximum load of tire

Check that the maximum load of the replacement tire is greater than 1/2
of the Gross Axle Weight Ratings (GAWR) of either the front axle or the
rear axle, whichever is greater.
For the GAWR, see the Certification
Label. For the maximum load of the
tire, see the load limit at maximum cold
tire inflation pressure mentioned on the
sidewall of the tire. (P. 474)

■ Tire types

1 Summer tires
Summer tires are high-speed performance tires best suited to highway
driving under dry conditions. Since summer tires do not have the same
traction performance as snow tires, summer tires are inadequate for
driving on snow-covered or icy roads. For driving on snow-covered
roads or icy roads, the use of snow tires is recommended. When
installing snow tires, be sure to replace all four tires.
2 All season tires
All season tires are designed to provide better traction in snow and to
be adequate for driving in most winter conditions, as well as for use
year round. All season tires, however, do not have adequate traction
performance compared with snow tires in heavy or loose snow. Also,
all season tires fall short in acceleration and handling performance
compared with summer tires in highway driving.
3 Snow tires
For driving on snow-covered roads or icy roads, we recommend using
snow tires. If you need snow tires, select tires of the same size, construction and load capacity as the originally installed tires. Since your
vehicle has radial tires as original equipment, make sure your snow
tires also have radial construction. Do not install studded tires without
first checking local regulations for possible restriction. Snow tires
should be installed on all wheels. (P. 261)

348

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Initializing the tire pressure warning system

Initialize the system with the tire inflation pressure adjusted to the specified level.
■ Routine tire inflation pressure checks

The tire pressure warning system does not replace routine tire inflation
pressure checks. Make sure to check tire inflation pressure as part of
your routine of daily vehicle checks.
■ Tire pressure warning system certification (vehicles without a

smart key system)

For vehicles sold in the U.S.A.
MODEL/FCC IDs:
Transmitter: PAXPMVC010
Receiver: HYQ23AAC
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject
to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful
interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received,
including interference that may cause undesired operation.

For vehicles sold in Canada
Model: PMV-C010
NOTE:
This device complies with Industry Canada’s licence-exempt RSSs.
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may
not cause interference; and (2) This device must accept any interference, including interference that may cause undesired operation of the
device.
NOTE:
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée
aux deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de
brouillage; (2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage
radioélectrique subi, même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.
349

Maintenance and care

FCC WARNING:
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment.

4

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Tire pressure warning system certification (vehicles with a smart

key system)

For vehicles sold in the U.S.A.
MODEL/FCC IDs:
Transmitter: PAXPMVC010
Receiver: HYQ23AAE
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject
to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful
interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received,
including interference that may cause undesired operation.
FCC WARNING:
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment.
For vehicles sold in Canada
Model: PMV-C010
NOTE:
This device complies with Industry Canada’s licence-exempt RSSs.
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may
not cause interference; and (2) This device must accept any interference, including interference that may cause undesired operation of the
device.
NOTE:
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée
aux deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de
brouillage; (2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage
radioélectrique subi, même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.

350

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ Tire pressure warning system operation

The tire pressure warning system may not provide warning immediately
if a tire bursts or if sudden air leakage occurs.
■ When inspecting or replacing tires

Observe the following precautions to prevent accidents.
Failure to do so may cause damage to parts of the drive train, as well as
dangerous handling characteristics, which may lead to an accident
resulting in death or serious injury.
● Make sure to install 4 tires that are of the specified size, and that all 4

tires are the same size, same maker, same brand and tread pattern.

● Do not use tire sizes other than those recommended by Toyota.
● Only use radial tires.
● Do not mix summer, all season and snow tires.
● Do not use tires that have been used on another vehicle.

4

Do not use tires if you do not know how they were used previously.

■ Repairing or replacing tires, wheels, tire pressure warning valves,

transmitters and tire valve caps

● When removing or fitting the wheels, tires or the tire pressure warning

valves and transmitters, contact your Toyota dealer as the tire pressure warning valves and transmitters may be damaged if not handled
correctly.

● Make sure to install the tire valve caps. If the tire valve caps are not

installed, water could enter the tire pressure warning valves and the
tire pressure warning valves could be bound.

● When replacing tire valve caps, do not use tire valve caps other than

those specified. The cap may become stuck.

351

Maintenance and care

NOTICE

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

NOTICE
■ Driving on rough roads

Take particular care when driving on roads with loose surfaces or pot
holes.
These conditions may cause losses in tire inflation pressure, reducing
the cushioning ability of the tires. In addition, driving on rough roads may
cause damage to the tires themselves, as well as the vehicle’s wheels
and body.
■ Low profile tires and wheels

Low profile tires may cause greater damage than usual to the tire wheel
when receiving impact from the road surface. Therefore pay attention to
the following:
● Be sure to use proper tire inflation pressure. If tires are under-inflated,

they may be damaged more severely.

● Avoid pot holes, uneven pavement, curbs and other road hazards.

Failure to do so may lead to severe tire and wheel damage.

■ If tire inflation pressures become low while driving

Do not continue driving, or your tires and/or wheels may be ruined.
■ Replacing a flat tire

Do not hit and bend the disc rotor backing plate when removing and
installing the tire. A bent backing plate may scrape against the disc rotor
and cause noise while the vehicle is in motion.

352

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Tire inflation pressure
■ Tire inflation pressure
The recommended cold tire inflation pressure and tire size is displayed on the tire and loading information label. (P. 468)

4

Maintenance and care
353

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Inspection and adjustment procedure
Tire valve
Tire pressure gauge

STEP 1 Remove the tire valve cap.
STEP 2 Press the tip of the tire pressure gauge onto the tire valve.
STEP 3 Read the pressure using the graduations of the gauge.
STEP 4 If the tire inflation pressure is not within the recommended

levels, adjust the pressure.
If you add too much air, press the center of the valve to
lower.
STEP 5 After completing the tire inflation pressure measurement

and adjustment, apply soapy water to the valve and check
for leakage.
STEP 6 Reinstall the tire valve cap.

■ Tire inflation pressure check interval

You should check tire inflation pressure every two weeks, or at least
once a month.
Do not forget to check the spare.

354

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Effects of incorrect tire inflation pressure

Driving with incorrect tire inflation pressure may result in the following:
● Reduced fuel economy
● Reduced driving comfort and poor handling
● Reduced tire life due to wear
● Reduced safety
● Damage to the drive train

If a tire needs frequent refilling, have it checked by your Toyota dealer.
■ Instructions for checking tire inflation pressure

When checking tire inflation pressure, observe the following:
● Check only when the tires are cold.

If your vehicle has been parked for at least 3 hours and has not been
driven for more than 1 mile or 1.5 km, you will get an accurate cold
tire inflation pressure reading.

● Always use a tire pressure gauge.

It is difficult to judge if a tire is properly inflated based only on its
appearance.
heat is generated in the tire. Do not reduce tire inflation pressure after
driving.

● Never exceed the vehicle capacity weight.

Passengers and luggage weight should be placed so that the vehicle
is balanced.

355

Maintenance and care

● It is normal for the tire inflation pressure to be higher after driving as

4

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ Proper inflation is critical to save tire performance

Keep your tires properly inflated.
If the tires are not properly inflated, the following conditions may occur
which could lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury:
● Excessive wear
● Uneven wear
● Poor handling
● Possibility of blowouts resulting from overheated tires
● Air leaking from between tire and wheel
● Wheel deformation and/or tire damage
● Greater possibility of tire damage while driving (due to road hazards,

expansion joints, sharp edges in the road, etc.)

NOTICE
■ When inspecting and adjusting tire inflation pressure

Be sure to reinstall the tire valve caps.
If a valve cap is not installed, dirt or moisture may get into the valve and
cause an air leak, resulting in decreased tire inflation pressure.

356

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Wheels
If a wheel is bent, cracked or heavily corroded, it should be
replaced. Otherwise, the tire may separate from the wheel or
cause loss of handling control.

■ Wheel selection
When replacing wheels, care should be taken to ensure that
they are equivalent to those removed in load capacity, diameter,
rim width, and inset*.
Replacement wheels are available at your Toyota dealer.

*: Conventionally referred to as “offset”.
Toyota does not recommend using:
● Wheels of different sizes or types
● Used wheels
● Bent wheels that have been straightened
4

■ Aluminum wheel precautions

● When rotating, repairing or changing your tires, check that the
wheel nuts are still tight after driving 1000 miles (1600 km).
● Be careful not to damage the aluminum wheels when using
tire chains.
● Use only Toyota genuine balance weights or equivalent and a
plastic or rubber hammer when balancing your wheels.

357

Maintenance and care

● Use only Toyota wheel nuts and wrenches designed for use
with your aluminum wheels.

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ When replacing wheels

The wheels of your Toyota are equipped with tire pressure warning
valves and transmitters that allow the tire pressure warning system to
provide advanced warning in the event of a loss in tire inflation pressure.
Whenever wheels are replaced, the tire pressure warning valves and
transmitters must be installed. (P. 346)

WARNING
■ When replacing wheels
● Do not use wheels that are a different size from those recommended in

the Owner’s Manual, as this may result in loss of handling control.

● Never use an inner tube in a leaking wheel which is designed for a

tubeless tire. Doing so may result in an accident, causing death or serious injury.

■ When installing the wheel nuts
● Be sure to install the wheel nuts with

the tapered ends facing inward.
Installing the nuts with the tapered
ends facing outward can cause the
wheel to break and eventually cause
the wheel to come off while driving,
Tapered portion
which could lead to an accident
resulting in death or serious injury.
● Never use oil or grease on the wheel bolts or wheel nuts.
Oil and grease may cause the wheel nuts to be excessively tightened,
leading to bolt or disc wheel damage. In addition, the oil or grease can
cause the wheel nuts to loosen and the wheel may fall off, causing an
accident and resulting in death or serious injury. Remove any oil or
grease from the wheel bolts or wheel nuts.

358

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

NOTICE
■ Replacing tire inflation pressure warning valves and transmitters
● Because tire repair or replacement may affect the tire pressure warn-

ing valves and transmitters, make sure to have tires serviced by your
Toyota dealer or other qualified service shop. In addition, make sure to
purchase your tire pressure warning valves and transmitters at your
Toyota dealer.

● Ensure that only genuine Toyota wheels are used on your vehicle.

Tire pressure warning valves and transmitters may not work properly
with non-genuine wheels.

4

Maintenance and care
359

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Air conditioning filter
The air conditioning filter must be changed regularly to maintain air
conditioning efficiency.

■ Removal method
STEP 1 Vehicles without a smart key system

Turn the engine switch off.
Vehicles with a smart key system
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
STEP 2

Open the glove box. Slide off
the damper.

STEP 3

Push in each side of the glove
box and pull the glove box
toward you to disconnect the
claws.

360

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

STEP 4

Lower the glove box slowly
until surface
is horizontal
with the floor, then pull it out.
(Simply pulling with gentle
force will disengage the lower
claws.)
Lower claw
Lower
point

claw

engagement

Do not forcibly pull the glove
box. Otherwise, the lower
claws or the lower claw
engagement points may be
deformed, making it difficult to
reinstall or close the glove box.
4

Remove the filter cover.

STEP 6

Remove the air conditioning
filter and replace it with a new
one.

Maintenance and care

STEP 5

The “UP” marks shown on
the filter should be pointing up.

STEP 7 When installing, reverse the steps listed.

361

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Checking interval
Inspect and replace the air conditioning filter according to the maintenance
schedule. In dusty areas or areas with heavy traffic flow, early replacement
may be required. (For scheduled maintenance information, please refer to
the “Scheduled Maintenance Guide” or “Owner’s Manual Supplement”.)
■ If air flow from the vents decreases dramatically
The filter may be clogged. Check the filter and replace if necessary.

NOTICE
■ When removing the glove box
Do not forcibly pull the glove box. Otherwise, the lower claws or the lower
claw engagement points may be deformed, making it difficult to reinstall or
close the glove box.
■ When using the air conditioning system
Make sure that a filter is always installed.
Using the air conditioning system without a filter may cause damage to the
system.

362

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Wireless remote control/electronic key battery
Replace the battery with a new one if it is depleted.

■ You will need the following items:
● Flathead screwdriver
● Lithium battery CR2016 (vehicles without a smart key system), or CR2032 (vehicles with a smart key system)
■ Replacing the battery (vehicles without a smart key system)
STEP 1

Remove the cover.
To prevent damage to the key,
cover the tip of the screwdriver
with a rag.
To prevent the buttons from
being disassembled, face the
button surface downward.
4

Remove the module.

STEP 3

Open the case cover using a
coin protected with tape etc.
and remove the depleted battery.

Maintenance and care

STEP 2

Insert a new battery with the
“+” terminal facing up.

363

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Replacing the battery (vehicles with a smart key system)
STEP 1

Take out the mechanical key.

STEP 2

Remove the cover.
To prevent damage to the key,
cover the tip of the screwdriver
with a rag.

STEP 3

Remove the depleted battery.
Insert a new battery with the
“+” terminal facing up.

364

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Use a CR2016 (vehicles without a smart key system) or CR2032 (vehicles with a smart key system) lithium battery
● Batteries can be purchased at your Toyota dealer, local electrical appliance shops or camera stores.
● Replace only with the same or equivalent type recommended by the
manufacturer.
● Dispose of used batteries according to local laws.
■ If the key battery is depleted
The following symptoms may occur:
● The smart key system (if equipped) and wireless remote control will not
function properly.
● The operational range will be reduced.
■ When putting the module back (vehicles without a smart key system)
Insert the module from directly above.
Inserting it on an angle may prevent the
key buttons from operating properly.

4

Maintenance and care

WARNING
■ Removed battery and other parts
These parts are small and if swallowed by a child, they can cause choking.
Keep away from children. Failure to do so could result in death or serious
injury.

365

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

NOTICE
■ For normal operation after replacing the battery
Observe the following precautions to prevent accidents:
● Always work with dry hands.
Moisture may cause the battery to rust.
● Do not touch or move any other component inside the remote control.
● Do not bend either of the battery terminals.

366

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Checking and replacing fuses
If any of the electrical components do not operate, a fuse may have
blown. If this happens, check and replace the fuses as necessary.
STEP 1 Vehicles without a smart key system

Turn the engine switch off.
Vehicles with a smart key system
Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
STEP 2 Open the fuse box cover.

Engine compartment
Push the tabs in and lift the lid
off.

4

Maintenance and care

Instrument panel
Remove the lid.

367

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

STEP 3 After a system failure, see “Fuse layout and amperage rat-

ings” (P. 370) for details about which fuse to check.
STEP 4

Remove the fuse with the pullout tool.

STEP 5 Check if the fuse has blown.

Type A
Normal fuse
Blown fuse
Replace it with one of an
appropriate amperage rating.
The amperage rating can be
found on the fuse box lid.

Type B
Normal fuse
Blown fuse
Replace it with one of an
appropriate amperage rating.
The amperage rating can be
found on the fuse box lid.

368

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Type C
Normal fuse
Blown fuse
Contact your Toyota dealer.

Type D
Normal fuse
Blown fuse
Contact your Toyota dealer.
4

Maintenance and care
369

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Fuse layout and amperage ratings
■ Engine compartment

Fuse

Ampere

Circuit

1

MIR HTR

7.5 A

Outside rear view mirror defoggers

2

RDI

25 A

Electric cooling fan

3

(PUSH-AT)

7.5 A

Engine control unit

4

ABS NO. 1

40 A

ABS

5

HEATER

50 A

Air conditioning system

6

WASHER

10 A

Windshield washer

7

WIPER

30 A

Windshield wipers

8

RR DEF

30 A

Rear window defogger

9

(RR FOG)

10 A

10

D FR DOOR

25 A

Power window (driver’s side)

11

(CDS)

25 A

Electric cooling fan

12

D-OP

25 A



13

ABS NO. 2

25 A

ABS

14

D FL DOOR

25 A

Power window (passenger’s side)

15

SPARE

370

See note.



Spare fuse

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Ampere

Circuit

16

SPARE

See note.

Spare fuse

17

SPARE

See note.

Spare fuse

18

SPARE

See note.

Spare fuse

19

SPARE

See note.

Spare fuse

20

SPARE

See note.

Spare fuse

21

ST

7.5 A

Starting system

22

ALT-S

7.5 A

Charging system

23

(STR LOCK)

7.5 A

Steering lock system

24

D/L

20 A

Power door lock

25

ETCS

15 A

Engine control unit

26

(AT+B)

7.5 A

Transmission

27

(AM2 NO. 2)

7.5 A

Smart key system

28

EFI (CTRL)

15 A

Engine control unit

29

EFI (HTR)

15 A

Multiport fuel injection system/
sequential multiport fuel injection
system

30

EFI (IGN)

15 A

Starting system

31

EFI (+B)

7.5 A

Engine control unit

32

HAZ

15 A

Turn signal lights, emergency
flashers

33

MPX-B

7.5 A

Automatic air conditioning system,
gauge and meters

34

F/PMP

20 A

Multiport fuel injection system/
sequential multiport fuel injection
system

35

IG2 MAIN

30 A

SRS airbag system, engine control
unit

36

DCC

30 A

Interior light, wireless remote control, main body ECU

4

Maintenance and care

Fuse

371

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Fuse

Ampere

Circuit

37

HORN NO. 2

7.5 A

Horn

38

HORN NO. 1

7.5 A

Horn

39

H-LP LH LO

15 A

Left-hand headlight (low beam)

40

H-LP RH LO

15 A

Right-hand headlight (low beam)

41

H-LP LH HI

10 A

Left-hand headlight (high beam)

42

H-LP RH HI

10 A

Right-hand headlight (high beam)

43

INJ

30 A

Multiport fuel injection system/
sequential multiport fuel injection
system

44

H-LP WASHER

30 A



45

AM2 NO. 1

40 A

Starting system, engine control unit

46

EPS

80 A

Electric power steering

47

A/B MAIN

15 A

SRS airbag system

48

ECU-B

7.5 A

Wireless remote control, main body
ECU

49

DOME

20 A

Interior light

50

IG2

7.5 A

Engine control unit

Note
One of each of the following spare fuses are provided: 7.5 A, 10 A, 15
A, 20 A, 25 A, 30 A.

372

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Instrument panel

Fuse

Ampere

ECU ACC

10 A

2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

P/POINT No.2
PANEL
TAIL
DRL
UNIT IG1
STOP
OBD
HEATER-S
HEATER
FR FOG LH
FR FOG RH
BK/UP LP
ECU IG1
AM1
AMP
AT UNIT

15 A
10 A
10 A
10 A
10 A
7.5 A
7.5 A
7.5 A
10 A
10 A
10 A
7.5 A
10 A
7.5 A
15 A
15 A

18

GAUGE

7.5 A

19
20
21
22
23

ECU IG2
SEAT HTR LH
SEAT HTR RH
RADIO
P/POINT No.1

10 A
10 A
10 A
7.5 A
15 A

4

Maintenance and care

1

Circuit
Main body ECU, outside rear view
mirrors
Power outlet
Illumination
Tail lights
Daytime running light system
Inside rear view mirror
Stop lights
On-board diagnosis system
Air conditioning system
Air conditioning system
Left-hand front fog light
Right-hand front fog light
Back-up lights
ABS, electric power steering
Starting system
Audio system
Transmission
Gauge and meters, smart key system
Engine control unit
Left-hand seat heater
Right-hand seat heater
Audio system
Power outlet
373

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ After a fuse is replaced
● If the lights do not turn on even after the fuse has been replaced, a bulb
may need replacement. (P. 375)
● If the replaced fuse blows again, have the vehicle inspected by your
Toyota dealer.
■ If there is an overload in the circuits
The fuses are designed to blow, protecting the wiring harness from damage.

WARNING
■ To prevent system breakdowns and vehicle fire
Observe the following precautions.
Failing to do so may cause damage to the vehicle, and possibly a fire or
injury.
● Never use a fuse of a higher amperage rating than indicated, or use any
other object in place of a fuse.
● Always use a genuine Toyota fuse or equivalent.
● Do not modify the fuse or the fuse box.

NOTICE
■ Before replacing fuses
Have the cause of electrical overload determined and repaired by your
Toyota dealer.

374

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Light bulbs
You may replace the following bulbs by yourself. The difficulty level
of replacement varies depending on the bulb. If necessary bulb
replacement seems difficult to perform, contact your Toyota dealer.

■ Preparing a replacement light bulb
Check the wattage of the light bulb being replaced. (P. 469)
■ Front bulb locations

4

Front side marker lights

Maintenance and care

■ Rear bulb locations

License
plate
lights

Back-up lights

375

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

Replacing light bulbs
■ Front side marker lights
STEP 1

Turn the steering wheel in the
opposite direction of the light to
be replaced.
Turn the steering wheel to a point
that allows your hand to easily fit
between the tire and fender liner.

STEP 2

Remove the clips and partly
remove the fender liner.
To prevent damage to the vehicle,
cover the tip of the screwdriver
with a rag.

STEP 3

Release the light's claw.
Insert the screwdriver into the
hole. While firmly pushing the
screwdriver forward, move it
towards the inside of the vehicle.
To prevent damage to the vehicle,
wrap the tip of the screwdriver
with a tape.

376

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

STEP 4

Pull out the lamp and turn the
lens counterclockwise.

STEP 5

Remove the light bulb.

4
STEP 6 When installing, reverse the steps listed.

Maintenance and care
377

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Back-up lights
STEP 1

Remove the clips.
To prevent damage to the vehicle,
cover the tip of the screwdriver
with a rag.

STEP 2

Turn the bulb base counterclockwise.

STEP 3

Remove the light bulb.

STEP 4 When installing, reverse the steps listed.

378

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ License plate lights
STEP 1

Turn the bulb base counterclockwise.

STEP 2

Remove the light bulb.

4

■ Replacing the following bulbs
If any of the lights listed below has burnt out, have it replaced by
your Toyota dealer.
● Headlights
● Parking lights/daytime running lights
● Front turn signal lights
● Front fog lights (if equipped)
● Stop/tail lights
● Stop lights
● Rear turn signal lights
● Rear side marker lights
● High mounted stoplight
379

Maintenance and care

STEP 3 When installing, reverse the steps listed.

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

■ Condensation build-up on the inside of the lens
Temporary condensation build-up on the inside of the light lens does not
indicate a malfunction. Contact your Toyota dealer for more information in
the following situations:
● Large drops of water are built up on the inside of the lens.
● Water has built up inside the light.
■ LED light bulbs
The headlights, parking lights/daytime running lights, front turn signal lights,
front fog lights (if equipped), stop/tail lights, stop lights, rear turn signal lights,
rear side marker lights and high mounted stoplight consist of a number of
LEDs. If any of the LEDs burn out, take your vehicle to your Toyota dealer to
have the light replaced.
■ When replacing light bulbs
Toyota recommends that you use genuine Toyota products designed for this
vehicle.
Because certain bulbs are connected to circuits designed to prevent overload, non-genuine parts or parts not designed for this vehicle may be unusable.
■ Removing and installing the luggage trim cover clip
Removing
Installing

380

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

WARNING
■ Replacing light bulbs
● Turn off the lights. Do not attempt to replace the bulb immediately after
turning off the lights.
The bulbs become very hot and may cause burns.
● Do not touch the glass portion of the light bulb with bare hands. When it is
unavoidable to hold the glass portion, use and hold with a clean dry cloth
to avoid getting moisture and oils on the bulb.
Also, if the bulb is scratched or dropped, it may blow out or crack.
● Fully install the light bulbs and any parts used to secure them. Failure to
do so may result in heat damage, fire, or water entering a light unit. This
may damage the light or cause condensation to build up on the inner side
of the lens.
■ When changing the back-up lights
Stop the engine and wait until the exhaust pipes have cooled down sufficiently. The lights are located near the exhaust pipe and touching a hot
exhaust pipe can cause burns.

4

■ To prevent damage or fire
Maintenance and care

Make sure bulbs are fully seated and locked.

381

4-3. Do-it-yourself maintenance

382

When trouble arises

5-1. Essential information
Emergency flashers ......... 384
If your vehicle needs to
be towed ........................ 385
If you think something
is wrong ......................... 393
Fuel pump shut off
system ........................... 394
5-2. Steps to take in an
emergency
If a warning light turns on
or a warning buzzer
sounds... ........................ 395
If a warning message is
displayed........................ 407
If you have a flat tire......... 424

5
If the engine will
not start .......................... 435
If the shift lever cannot be
shifted from P................. 438
If you lose your keys ........ 439
If the electronic key does
not operate properly....... 440
If the battery is
discharged ..................... 444
If your vehicle
overheats ....................... 449
If the vehicle becomes
stuck .............................. 452
If your vehicle has to be
stopped in an
emergency ..................... 454

383

5-1. Essential information

Emergency flashers
The emergency flashers are used to warn other drivers when the
vehicle has to be stopped in the road due to a breakdown, etc.

Press the switch.
All the turn signal lights will
flash. To turn them off, press
the switch once again.

■ Emergency flashers
If the emergency flashers are used for a long time while the engine is not
operating, the battery may discharge.

384

5-1. Essential information

If the vehicle is trapped in rising water
In the event the vehicle is submerged in water, remain calm and perform the following.

● Remove the seat belt first.
● If the door can be opened, open the door and exit the vehicle.
● If the door can not be opened, open the window using the power
window switch and exit the vehicle through the window.
● If the window can not be opened using the power window switch,
remain calm, wait until the water level inside the vehicle rises to the
point that the water pressure inside of the vehicle equals the water
pressure outside of the vehicle, and then open the door and exit
the vehicle.
WARNING
■ Using an emergency hammer* for emergency escape
The front side windows and rear side windows, as well as the rear window
can be shattered with an emergency hammer* used for emergency escape.
However, an emergency hammer* can not shatter the windshield as it is
laminated glass.
ther information about an emergency hammer.
■ Escaping the vehicle from the window
There are cases where escaping the vehicle from the window is not possible
due to seating position, passenger body type, etc.
When using an emergency hammer, consider your seat location and the size
of the window opening to ensure that the opening is accessible and large
enough to escape.

385

When trouble arises

*: Contact your Toyota dealer or aftermarket accessory manufacturer for fur-

5

5-1. Essential information

If your vehicle needs to be towed
If towing is necessary, we recommend having your vehicle towed by
your Toyota dealer or a commercial towing service, using a lift-type
truck or a flat bed truck.
Use a safety chain system for all towing, and abide by all state/provincial and local laws.
If towing from the rear, the vehicle's front wheels and axles must be
in good condition. (P. 392)
If they are damaged, use a towing dolly or flat bed truck.

Before towing
The following may indicate a problem with your transmission. Contact
your Toyota dealer before towing.
● The engine is running, but the vehicle will not move.
● The vehicle makes an abnormal sound.
Emergency towing
If a tow truck is not available in an emergency, your vehicle may be
temporarily towed using a cable or chain secured to the emergency
towing eyelet. This should only be attempted on hard surfaced roads
for short distances at low speeds.
A driver must be in the vehicle to steer and operate the brakes. The
vehicle’s wheels, drive train, axles, steering and brakes must be in
good condition.
For vehicles with an automatic transmission, only the front towing
eyelet may be used.

386

5-1. Essential information

Towing eyelet

■ Before emergency towing
STEP 1 Release the parking brake.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to N.
STEP 3 Vehicles without a smart key system: Turn the engine switch to the

“ACC” (engine off) or “ON” (engine running) position.
Vehicles with a smart key system: Turn the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch to ACCESSORY (engine off) or IGNITION ON
(engine running) mode.
■ If towing a vehicle
Do not tow another vehicle. If towing a vehicle that has broken down is
unavoidable, avoid towing a vehicle that is heavier than your vehicle. Also,
do not pull out a vehicle that has fallen into a ditch.

■ Caution while towing
● Use extreme caution when towing the vehicle.
Avoid sudden starts or erratic driving maneuvers which place excessive
stress on the emergency towing eyelets and the cables or chains. Always
be cautious of the surroundings and other vehicles while towing.
● If the engine is not running, the power assist for the brakes and steering
will not function, making steering and braking more difficult.

387

When trouble arises

WARNING

5

5-1. Essential information

NOTICE
■ To prevent causing serious damage to the transmission in emergency
towing (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
Never tow a vehicle from the rear with four wheels on the ground. This may
cause serious damage to the transmission.
■ To prevent damage to the vehicle
● When towing this vehicle, make sure to observe the following:
• Do not use a wire rope
• Keep vehicle speed below 20 mph (30 km/h) and do not tow for distances over 19 miles (30 km)
• Tow the vehicle in the forward direction
• Do not apply rope to the vehicle's suspension and so forth
● Do not tow another vehicle, boat (trailer) and so forth, that is heavier than
this vehicle.
■ When towing down a long slope
Use a wheel lift-type or flat bed truck. (P. 392, 393)
If a wheel lift-type or flat bed truck is not used, the brakes may overheat,
leading to poor brake performance.

388

5-1. Essential information

Installing a towing eyelet
STEP 1 Remove the eyelet cover(s).

To prevent damage to the vehicle, cover the tip of the screwdriver
with a rag.

Front
Remove the upper cover using a
flathead screwdriver and then
pull the lower cover outward by
hand to remove it.
Upper cover
Lower cover

5

When trouble arises

Rear

389

5-1. Essential information

STEP 2

Insert the towing eyelet into the
hole and tighten partially by
hand.

STEP 3

Tighten down the towing eyelet
securely using a wheel nut
wrench.

■ Location of the emergency towing eyelet
P. 425

WARNING
■ Installing towing eyelets to the vehicle
Make sure that towing eyelet is installed securely.
If not securely installed, towing eyelets may come loose during towing. This
may lead to accidents that cause serious injury or even death.
■ After towing
● Always remove the towing eyelet. Failure to do so can cause the SRS airbags to not operate correctly in the event of a frontal collision.
● Always remove the towing eyelets. Failure to do so may prevent the fuel
pump shut off system from operating properly if the vehicle receives an
impact from the rear.

390

5-1. Essential information

Towing with a sling-type truck

NOTICE
■ To prevent body damage
Do not tow with a sling-type truck, either from the front or rear.

5

When trouble arises
391

5-1. Essential information

Towing with a wheel lift-type truck
From the front
Vehicles with an automatic transmission: Use a towing dolly
under the rear wheels.
Vehicles with a manual transmission: We recommend using a
towing dolly under the rear
wheels.
When not using a towing dolly,
release the parking brake and
shift the shift lever to N.

From the rear
Vehicles without a smart key
system: Turn the engine switch
to the “ACC” position so that the
steering wheel is unlocked.
Vehicles with a smart key system: Turn the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch to ACCESSORY
mode so that the steering wheel
is unlocked.

392

5-1. Essential information

NOTICE
■ To prevent causing serious damage to the transmission when towing
using a wheel-lift type truck (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
Never tow this vehicle from the front with the rear wheels on the ground.
■ To prevent damaging the vehicle
● Vehicles without a smart key system: Do not tow the vehicle from the rear
when the engine switch is in the “LOCK” position or the key is removed.
The steering lock mechanism is not strong enough to hold the front wheels
straight.
● Vehicles with a smart key system: Do not tow the vehicle from the rear
when the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is off. The steering lock mechanism is not strong enough to hold the front wheels straight.
● When raising the vehicle from the rear, ensure adequate ground clearance
for towing at the opposite end of the raised vehicle. Without adequate
clearance, the vehicle could be damaged while being towed from the rear.

Using a flat bed truck
If you use chains or cables to tie
down your vehicle, the angles
shaded in black must be 45.

393

When trouble arises

Do not overly tighten the tie
downs or the vehicle may be
damaged.

5

5-1. Essential information

If you think something is wrong
If you notice any of the following symptoms, your vehicle probably
needs adjustment or repair. Contact your Toyota dealer as soon as
possible.

■ Visible symptoms
● Fluid leaks under the vehicle
(Water dripping from the air conditioning after use is normal.)
● Flat-looking tires or uneven tire wear
● Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display: The
engine coolant temperature gauge needle continually points
higher than normal
● Vehicles with a color multi-information display: The high
engine coolant temperature warning light flashes or illuminates
■ Audible symptoms
● Changes in exhaust sound
● Excessive tire squeal when cornering
● Strange noises related to the suspension system
● Pinging or other noises related to the engine
■ Operational symptoms
● Engine missing, stumbling or running rough
● Appreciable loss of power
● Vehicle pulls heavily to one side when braking
● Vehicle pulls heavily to one side when driving on a level road
● Loss of brake effectiveness, spongy feeling, pedal almost
touches the floor

394

5-1. Essential information

Fuel pump shut off system
When the vehicle sustains an impact in an accident, etc., the fuel
pump shut off system operates to stop supplying fuel in order to
minimize fuel leakage.

Follow the procedure below to restart the engine after the system is
activated.
Vehicles without a smart key system
STEP 1 Turn the engine switch to the “ACC” or “LOCK” position.
STEP 2 Restart the engine.

Vehicles with a smart key system
STEP 1 Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to ACCESSORY mode

or turn it off.
STEP 2 Restart the engine.

NOTICE
■ Before starting the engine
Inspect the ground under the vehicle.
If you find that fuel has leaked on to the ground, the fuel system has been
damaged and is in need of repair. Do not restart the engine.

5

When trouble arises
395

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If a warning light turns on or a warning buzzer sounds...
Calmly perform the following actions if any of the warning lights turn
on or flash. If a light turns on or flashes, but then turns off, this does
not necessarily indicate a malfunction in the system.

Stop the vehicle immediately. Continuing to drive the vehicle
may be dangerous.
The following warning indicates a possible problem in the brake system. Immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place and contact your
Toyota dealer.
Warning light

(U.S.A.)

(Canada)

396

Warning light/Details
Brake system warning light
• Low brake fluid
• Malfunction in the brake system
This light also comes on when the parking brake is not
released. If the light turns off after the parking brake is fully
released the system is operating normally.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Stop the vehicle immediately.
The following warning indicates the possibility of damage to the vehicle that may lead to an accident. Immediately stop the vehicle in a
safe place and contact your Toyota dealer.
Warning light

Warning light/Details
Charging system warning light
Indicates a malfunction in the vehicle’s charging system.
Low engine oil pressure warning light
Indicates that the engine oil pressure is too low.

High engine coolant temperature warning light (if
equipped)
Indicates that the engine is almost overheating. (P. 450)
(Flashes or illuAs the engine coolant temperature increases, this warning
minates in red)
light will change from flashing to constantly illuminated.

5

When trouble arises
397

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Have the vehicle inspected immediately.
Failing to investigate the cause of the following warnings may lead to
the system operating abnormally and possibly cause an accident.
Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer immediately.
Warning light

(U.S.A.)

(Canada)

Warning light/Details
Malfunction indicator lamp
Indicates a malfunction in:
• The electronic engine control system;
• The electronic throttle control system;
• The electronic automatic transmission control system.
SRS warning light
Indicates a malfunction in:
• The SRS airbag system;
• The seat belt pretensioner system;
• The front passenger occupant classification system.

(U.S.A.)

ABS warning light
Indicates a malfunction in:
• The ABS;
• The brake assist system.

(Canada)
Electric power steering warning light (warning buzzer)
Indicates a malfunction in the EPS (Electric Power Steering) system.
Slip indicator
Indicates a malfunction in:
• The VSC system;
• The TRAC system;
• The hill-start assist control system.
Automatic headlight leveling system warning light
Indicates a malfunction in the automatic headlight leveling
system.

398

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Warning light

(Comes on in
yellow)

Warning light/Details
Cruise control indicator light
Indicates a malfunction in the cruise control system.

■ If the malfunction indicator lamp comes on while driving
First check the following:
● Is the fuel tank empty?
If it is, fill the fuel tank immediately.
● Is the fuel tank cap loose?
If it is, tighten it securely.
The malfunction indicator lamp will go off after several driving trips.
If the malfunction indicator lamp does not go off even after several trips, contact your Toyota dealer as soon as possible.
■ SRS warning light
P. 125
■ Electric power steering warning light (warning buzzer)
The electric power steering warning light may come on and the warning
buzzer may sound when the voltage is low or the voltage drops.

■ When the electric power steering warning light comes on
The steering wheel may become extremely heavy.
If the steering wheel becomes heavier than usual when operating, hold
firmly and operate using more force than usual.

399

When trouble arises

WARNING

5

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Follow the correction procedures.
After taking the specified steps to correct the suspected problem,
check that the warning light turns off.
Warning light

(Comes on in
yellow)

(On the instrument cluster)

(On the center
panel)

400

Warning light/Details
Open door warning light (if
equipped)
Indicates that a door or the
trunk is not fully closed.
Low fuel level warning
light
Remaining fuel
(Approximately 1.8 gal.
[7.0 L, 1.5 Imp. gal.] or
less)
Driver’s seat belt
reminder light
(warning buzzer)*1
Warns the driver to fasten
his/her seat belt.
Front passenger’s seat
belt reminder light
(warning buzzer)*2
Warns the front passenger
to fasten his or her seat
belt.

Correction procedure
Check that both side doors
and the trunk are closed.

Refuel the vehicle.

Fasten the seat belt.

Fasten the seat belt.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Warning light

Warning light/Details

Correction procedure

Tire pressure warning
light

When the light comes on
after blinking for approximately one minute:
Malfunction in the tire pressure warning system
(P. 404)

Have the system checked
by your Toyota dealer.

Automatic transmission
fluid temperature warning
light (if equipped)
Indicates that the automatic transmission fluid
temperature is too high.

Stop the vehicle in a safe
place and shift the shift lever
to P.
If the light goes off after a little while, the vehicle can be
driven. If the light does not
go off, contact your Toyota
dealer.

Master warning light (if
equipped)
A buzzer sounds and the
warning light comes on and
flashes to indicate that the
master warning system has
detected a malfunction.

P. 408

401

5

When trouble arises

When the light comes on:
Low tire inflation pressure
such as
• Natural causes (P. 403)
• Flat tire (P. 425)

Adjust the tire inflation
pressure to the specified
level.
The light will turn off after
a few minutes. In case the
light does not turn off
even if the tire inflation
pressure is adjusted,
have the system checked
by your Toyota dealer.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

*1

: Driver’s seat belt buzzer:
Vehicles without a smart key system
The driver’s seat belt buzzer sounds to alert the driver that his or her seat
belt is not fastened. Once the engine switch is turned to the “ON” position,
the buzzer sounds for 6 seconds. If the vehicle reaches a speed of 12 mph
(20 km/h), the buzzer sounds once. If the seat belt is still unfastened after 24
seconds, the buzzer will sound intermittently for 10 seconds. Then, if the
seat belt is still unfastened, the buzzer will sound in a different tone for 20
more seconds.
Vehicles with a smart key system
The driver’s seat belt buzzer sounds to alert the driver that his or her seat
belt is not fastened. Once the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is turned to
IGNITION ON mode, the buzzer sounds for 6 seconds. If the vehicle
reaches a speed of 12 mph (20 km/h), the buzzer sounds once. If the seat
belt is still unfastened after 24 seconds, the buzzer will sound intermittently
for 10 seconds. Then, if the seat belt is still unfastened, the buzzer will
sound in a different tone for 20 more seconds.

*2: Front passenger’s seat belt buzzer:

The front passenger’s seat belt buzzer sounds to alert the front passenger
that his or her seat belt is not fastened. The buzzer sounds once if the vehicle reaches a speed of 12 mph (20 km/h). If the seat belt is still unfastened
after 24 seconds, the buzzer will sound intermittently for 10 seconds. Then,
if the seat belt is still unfastened, the buzzer will sound in a different tone for
20 more seconds.

402

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

■ Front passenger detection sensor and passenger seat belt reminder
and warning buzzer
● If luggage is placed on the front passenger seat, the front passenger
detection sensor may cause the warning light to flash and warning
buzzer to sound, even if a passenger is not sitting in the seat.
● If a cushion is placed on the seat, the sensor may not detect a passenger, and the warning light may not operate properly.
■ When the tire pressure warning light comes on

Check the tire inflation pressure and adjust to the appropriate level.
■ The tire pressure warning light may turn on due to natural causes

The tire pressure warning light may turn on due to natural causes such
as natural air leaks or tire inflation pressure changes caused by temperature. In this case, adjusting the tire inflation pressure will turn off the
warning light (after a few minutes).
■ When a tire is replaced with a spare tire

The compact spare tire is not equipped with a tire pressure warning
valve and transmitter. If a tire goes flat, the tire pressure warning light will
not turn off even though the flat tire has been replaced with the spare
tire. Replace the spare tire with the repaired tire and adjust the tire inflation pressure. The tire pressure warning light will go off after a few minutes.

5

When trouble arises
403

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

■ If the tire pressure warning system is inoperative

The tire pressure warning system will be disabled in the following conditions:
(When the condition becomes normal, the system will work properly.)
● If tires not equipped with tire pressure warning valves and transmit-

ters are used.

● If the ID code on the tire pressure warning valves and transmitters is

not registered in the tire pressure warning computer.
● If the tire inflation pressure is 55 psi (380 kPa, 3.87 kgf/cm2 or bar) or
higher.
The tire pressure warning system may be disabled in the following conditions:
(When the condition becomes normal, the system will work properly.)
● If electronic devices or facilities using similar radio wave frequencies

are nearby.
● If a radio set at similar frequencies is in use in the vehicle.
● If a window tint that affects the radio wave signals is installed.
● If there is a lot of snow or ice on the vehicle, in particular around the
wheels or wheel housings.
● If non-genuine Toyota wheels are used. (Even if you use Toyota
wheels, the tire pressure warning system may not work properly with
some types of tires.)
● If tire chains are used.
● If a large metallic object which can interfere with signal reception is
put in the trunk.
■ If the tire pressure warning light frequently comes on after blinking

for approximately one minute

If the tire pressure warning light frequently comes on after blinking for
approximately one minute when the “ENGINE START STOP” switch is
turned to IGNITION ON mode (vehicles with a smart key system) or the
engine switch is turned to the “ON” position (vehicles without a smart key
system), have it checked your Toyota dealer.

404

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ If the tire pressure warning light comes on

Be sure to observe the following precautions. Failure to do so could
cause loss of vehicle control and result in death or serious injury.
● Stop your vehicle in a safe place as soon as possible. Adjust the tire

inflation pressure immediately.

● If the tire pressure warning light comes on even after tire inflation pres-

sure adjustment, it is probable that you have a flat tire. Check the tires.
If the tire is flat, change to the spare tire and have the flat tire repaired
by the nearest Toyota dealer.

● Avoid abrupt maneuvering and braking. If the vehicle tires deteriorate,

you could lose control of the steering wheel or the brakes.

■ If a blowout or sudden air leakage should occur

The tire pressure warning system may not activate immediately.

5

When trouble arises
405

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ Maintenance of the tires

Each tire, including the spare (if provided), should be checked monthly
when cold and inflated to the inflation pressure recommended by the
vehicle manufacturer on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure
label (tire and load information label). (If your vehicle has tires of a different size than the size indicated on the vehicle placard or tire inflation
pressure label [tire and load information label], you should determine the
proper tire inflation pressure for those tires.)
As an added safety feature, your vehicle has been equipped with a tire
pressure monitoring system (TPMS-tire pressure warning system) that
illuminates a low tire pressure telltale (tire pressure warning light) when
one or more of your tires is significantly under-inflated. Accordingly,
when the low tire pressure telltale (tire pressure warning light) illuminates, you should stop and check your tires as soon as possible, and
inflate them to the proper pressure. Driving on a significantly underinflated tire causes the tire to overheat and can lead to tire failure.
Under-inflation also reduces fuel efficiency and tire tread life, and may
affect the vehicle's handling and stopping ability.
Please note that the TPMS (tire pressure warning system) is not a substitute for proper tire maintenance, and it is the driver's responsibility to
maintain correct tire pressure, even if under-inflation has not reached the
level to trigger illumination of the TPMS low tire pressure telltale (tire
pressure warning light).
Your vehicle has also been equipped with a TPMS (tire pressure warning
system) malfunction indicator to indicate when the system is not operating properly. The TPMS (tire pressure warning system) malfunction indicator is combined with the low tire pressure telltale (tire pressure
warning light). When the system detects a malfunction, the telltale will
flash for approximately one minute and then remain continuously illuminated. This sequence will continue upon subsequent vehicle start-ups as
long as the malfunction exists. When the malfunction indicator is illuminated, the system may not be able to detect or signal low tire pressure
as intended.

406

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
TPMS (tire pressure warning system) malfunctions may occur for a variety of reasons, including the installation of replacement or alternate tires
or wheels on the vehicle that prevent the TPMS (tire pressure warning
system) from functioning properly. Always check the TPMS (tire pressure warning system) malfunction telltale after replacing one or more
tires or wheels on your vehicle to ensure that the replacement or alternate tires and wheels allow the TPMS (tire pressure warning system) to
continue to function properly.

NOTICE
■ To ensure the tire pressure warning system operates properly

Do not install tires with different specifications or makers, as the tire
pressure warning system may not operate properly.

5

When trouble arises
407

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If a warning message is displayed (vehicles with a color multi-information display)
If a warning is shown on the multi-information display, stay calm and
perform the following actions:

Master warning light
The master warning light also
comes on or flashes in order to
indicate that a message is currently being displayed on the
multi-information display.

Multi-information display
If any of the warning light comes on again after the following
actions have been performed, contact your Toyota dealer.

Stop the vehicle immediately. Continuing to drive the vehicle
may be dangerous.
The following warning indicates a possible problem in the brake system. Immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place and contact your
Toyota dealer.
Warning message

(U.S.A.)
(Canada)

408

Details

Indicates that:
• The brake fluid level is low; or
• The brake system is malfunctioning
A buzzer also sounds.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Stop the vehicle immediately.
The following warning indicates the possibility of damage to the vehicle that may lead to an accident. Immediately stop the vehicle in a
safe place and contact your Toyota dealer.
Warning message

Details

Indicates that the engine is almost overheating.
(P. 450)
A buzzer also sounds.
(Comes on in red)

5

When trouble arises
409

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Have the vehicle inspected immediately.
Failure to investigate the cause of the following warnings may lead to
the system operating abnormally and possibly cause an accident.
Have the vehicle inspected by your Toyota dealer immediately.
Warning message

Details

Indicates a malfunction in:
• The SRS airbag system;
• The seat belt pretensioner system;
• The front passenger occupant detection system.
A buzzer also sounds.

(U.S.A.)

Indicates a malfunction in:
• The ABS;
• The brake assist system.
A buzzer also sounds.

(Canada)

Indicates a malfunction in the EPS (Electric Power
Steering) system.
A buzzer also sounds.

410

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Warning message

(Flashes)

Details

Indicates a malfunction in the smart key system.
A buzzer also sounds.

(Flashes in yellow)

5

When trouble arises
411

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Follow the correction procedures.
After taking the specified steps to correct the suspected problem,
check that the warning message and light go off.
Warning message

Details
Indicates that one or
more of the doors is
not fully closed
The system also indicates which doors are
not fully closed.
If the vehicle reaches
a speed of 3 mph (5

Correction procedure

Make sure that both
side doors are closed.

km/h),
flashes to indicate that
the door(s) are not yet
fully closed.
Indicates that the trunk
is not fully closed
If the vehicle reaches
a speed of 3 mph (5
km/h),
flashes to indicate
that the trunk is not
yet fully closed.

412

Close the trunk.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Warning message

Details

Correction procedure

Indicates that the automatic transmission fluid
temperature is too
high.
A buzzer also
sounds.

Stop the vehicle in a
safe place and shift the
shift lever to P.
If the message is
cleared after a little
while, the vehicle can
be driven. If the message is not cleared,
contact your Toyota
dealer.

Indicates that the lights
are left on when the
“ENGINE START STOP”
switch is off and the
driver’s door opened.
A buzzer also
sounds.

Turn the lights off.

(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

(Flashes)

Refuel the vehicle.

Roads may be icy due
to the low outside temperature.

Drive carefully avoiding
sudden acceleration,
sudden braking, sudden deceleration, and
sharp turns.

5

*: This distance is computed based on your average fuel consumption. As a
result, the actual distance that can be driven may differ from that displayed.

413

When trouble arises

(Comes on in yellow)

Indicates that remaining fuel is approximately 1.8 gal. (7.0 L,
1.5 Imp. gal.) or less
The estimated
remaining driving
range will be displayed under this
warning message.*

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Have the malfunction repaired immediately.
After taking the specified steps to correct the suspected problem,
check that the warning message and light go off.
Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer

Warning message


(Flashes)

Details

Correction
procedure

Indicates that the
electronic key is
not present when
attempting to
start the engine.

Confirm
the location of the
electronic
key.

Indicates that a
door other than
the driver’s door
has been opened
and closed with
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch in any
mode other than
off and the electronic key outside of the
detection area.

Confirm
the location of the
electronic
key.

(Flashes in yellow)

Once

3 times
(Flashes)
(Flashes in yellow)

414

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer

3 times

Warning message

(Flashes)
(Flashes in yellow)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Once

3 times

(Flashes)

(Vehicles with a manual
transmission)

Correction
procedure

The electronic
key was carried
outside the vehicle and the
driver’s door
was opened
and closed
while the shift
position P was
selected without turning off
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch.

Turn the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch off
or bring
the electronic key
back into
the vehicle.

The electronic
key was carried
outside the vehicle and the
driver’s door
was opened
and closed
while the shift
position N was
selected without turning off
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch.

Turn the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch off
or bring
the electronic key
back into
the vehicle.

415

5

When trouble arises

(Flashes in yellow)

Details

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer

Continuous
(5 seconds)

Warning message

(Displayed alternately)
(Flashes)

Details

Correction
procedure

An attempt was
made to exit the
vehicle with the
electronic key
and touch the
lock sensor to
lock the doors
without first turning the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch off.

Turn the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch off
and lock
the doors
again.

An attempt was
made to drive
when the regular
key was not
inside the vehicle.

Confirm
that the
electronic
key is
inside the
vehicle.

(Flashes in yellow)

Intermittently (7
seconds)


(Flashes)
(Flashes in yellow)

416

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Continuous

Exterior
buzzer

Warning message


(Flashes)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Continuous

Continuous

(Displayed alternately)
(Flashes)
(Flashes in yellow)

Correction
procedure

The driver’s door
was opened
while any shift
position other
than P was
selected without
turning off the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch.

Shift the
shift lever
to P.

The electronic
key was carried
outside the vehicle and the
driver’s door was
opened and
closed while any
shift position
other than P was
selected without
turning off the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch.

• Shift the
shift lever
to P.
• Bring the
electronic
key back
into the
vehicle.

5

When trouble arises

(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Details

417

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer



Exterior
buzzer

Warning message

Continuous
(5 seconds)
(Flashes)

Once

Continuous
(5 seconds)
(Flashes)

418

Details

Correction
procedure

An attempt was
made to lock the
doors using the
smart key system while the
electronic key
was still inside
the vehicle.

Retrieve
the electronic key
from the
vehicle
and lock
the doors
again.

An attempt was
made to lock
either door by
opening a door
and putting the
lock lever into the
lock position,
then closing the
door by pulling on
the outside door
handle with the
electronic key still
inside the vehicle.

Retrieve
the electronic key
from the
vehicle
and lock
the doors
again.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer



Warning message

(Flashes)
(Flashes in yellow)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Details

Correction
procedure

• When the doors
were unlocked
with the mechanical key and then
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch was
pressed, the
electronic key
could not be
detected in the
vehicle.
• The electronic
key could not be
detected in the
vehicle even after
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch was
pressed two consecutive times.

Touch the
electronic
key to the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch
while
depressing the
brake
pedal.

5

When trouble arises
419

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer



Warning message

(Flashes)
(Flashes in yellow)
(Vehicles with a manual
transmission)

Once


(Flashes)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

420

Details

Correction
procedure

• When the doors
were unlocked
with the mechanical key and then
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch was
pressed, the
electronic key
could not be
detected in the
vehicle.
• The electronic
key could not be
detected in the
vehicle even after
the “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch was
pressed two consecutive times.

Touch the
electronic
key to the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch
while
depressing the
clutch
pedal.

An attempt was
made to start the
engine with the
shift lever in an
incorrect position.

Shift the
shift lever
to P and
start the
engine.

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer



Once

Exterior
buzzer

Correction
procedure



Power was
turned off due to
the automatic
power off function.

Next time
when
starting
the
engine,
increase
the engine
speed
slightly
and maintain that
level for
approximately 5
minutes to
recharge
the battery.



Indicates that the
electronic key
battery is low.

Replace
the battery.
(P. 363)

(Flashes in yellow)

421

5

When trouble arises

Details

Warning message

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer

Warning message

Correction
procedure

The driver’s door
was opened and
closed with the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
turned off and
then the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
was put in
ACCESSORY
mode twice without the engine
being started.

Press the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch
while
depressing the
brake
pedal.

During an engine
starting procedure in the event
that the electronic
key was not functioning properly
(P. 442), the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
was touched with
the electronic
key.

Press the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch
while
depressing the
brake
pedal
within 10
seconds
of the
buzzer
sounding.


(Flashes)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

422

Details

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer

Warning message

Correction
procedure

The driver’s door
was opened and
closed with the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
turned off and
then the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
was put in
ACCESSORY
mode twice without the engine
being started.

Press the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch
while
depressing the
clutch
pedal.

During an engine
starting procedure in the event
that the electronic
key was not functioning properly
(P. 442), the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
was touched with
the electronic
key.

Press the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch
while
depressing the
clutch
pedal
within 10
seconds
of the
buzzer
sounding.


(Flashes)
(Vehicles with a manual
transmission)

423

5

When trouble arises

Details

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Interior
buzzer

Once

Exterior
buzzer

Warning message


(Flashes)

Details

Correction
procedure

Indicates that the
steering lock has
not been
released.

Release
the steering lock.
(P. 172)

The “ENGINE
START STOP”
switch has been
turned off with the
shift lever in a
position other
than P.

Shift the
shift lever
to P.

After the
“ENGINE START
STOP” switch
has been turned
off with the shift
lever in a position other than P,
the shift lever has
been shifted to P.

Turn the
“ENGINE
START
STOP”
switch off.

(Flashes quickly in green)

Continuous


(Flashes)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

Once


(Flashes)
(Vehicles with an automatic transmission)

■ Warning buzzer
In some cases, the buzzer may not be heard because of noisy place or an
audio sound.

424

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If you have a flat tire
Your vehicle is equipped with a spare tire. The flat tire can be
replaced with the spare tire.

■ Before jacking up the vehicle
● Stop the vehicle in a safe place on a hard, flat surface.
● Set the parking brake.
● Shift the shift lever to P (vehicles with an automatic transmission) or R (vehicles with a manual transmission).
● Stop the engine.
● Turn on the emergency flashers. (P. 384)
■ Location of the spare tire, jack and tools

Screwdriver

Jack handle

Towing eyelet

5

Spacer*

Spare tire

When trouble arises

Jack

Wheel nut
wrench

*: Vehicles with a T145/70D17 compact spare tire

425

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Taking out the spare tire
STEP 1

Remove the luggage mat.

STEP 2

Remove the cover and loosen
the center fastener that secures
the spare tire.

426

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Replacing a flat tire
STEP 1

Chock the tires.

Flat tire
Lefthand
side

Behind the
rear righthand side
tire

Righthand
side

Behind the
rear lefthand side
tire

Lefthand
side

In front of
the front
right-hand
side tire

Righthand
side

In front of
the front
left-hand
side tire

Front

Rear

5

Slightly loosen the wheel nuts
(one turn).

427

When trouble arises

STEP 2

Wheel
chock positions

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

STEP 3

Turn the tire jack portion “A” by
hand until the notch of the jack is
in contact with the jack point.

STEP 4

Raise the vehicle until the tire is
slightly raised off the ground.

STEP 5

Remove all the wheel nuts and
the tire.
When resting the tire on the
ground, place the tire so that the
wheel design faces up to avoid
scratching the wheel surface.

428

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Installing the spare tire
Remove any dirt or foreign matter from the wheel contact surface.

STEP 1

If foreign matter is on the wheel
contact surface, the wheel nuts
may loosen while the vehicle is
in motion, and the tire may
come off the vehicle.
STEP 2

STEP 3

Tapered portion

Install the spare tire and loosely
tighten each wheel nut by hand
to approximately the same
amount.

Disc wheel
seat

Tighten the wheel nuts until the
tapered portion comes into
loose contact with the disc
wheel seat.

Lower the vehicle.
5

Firmly tighten each nut two or
three times in the order shown in
the illustration.
Tightening torque:
89 ft•lbf (120 N•m, 12.2 kgf•m)

429

When trouble arises

STEP 4

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

STEP 5 Stow the flat tire, tire jack and all tools. (P. 431)

■ The compact spare tire
● The compact spare tire is identified by the label “TEMPORARY USE

ONLY” on the tire sidewall.
Use the compact spare tire temporarily only in an emergency.

● Make sure to check the tire pressure of the compact spare tire.

(P. 468)

■ When using the compact spare tire

As the compact spare tire is not equipped with the tire pressure warning
valve and transmitter, low inflation pressure of the spare tire will not be
warned. Also, if you replace the compact spare tire after the tire pressure
warning light comes on, the light remains on.
■ If you have a flat rear tire

Install the compact spare tire on the front of the vehicle. Perform the following steps.
STEP 1

Replace a front tire with the compact spare tire.

STEP 2

Replace the flat rear tire with the tire removed from the front of
the vehicle.

■ After completing the tire change

The tire pressure warning system must be reset. (P. 346)

430

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

■ Storing a tire (for compact spare tire)
STEP 1

Vehicles with a T145/70D17 compact
spare tire only: Install the spare tire
spacer with the “Ft” mark facing the
front of the vehicle and the rear edge of
the spacer contacting the vehicle body.

STEP 2

Install the center fastener as shown in
the illustration.

■ Storing a tire (except compact spare tire)
STEP 1

Vehicles with a T145/70D17 compact
spare tire only: Before stowing the flat
tire, remove the spare tire spacer.
5

Install the center fastener as shown in
the illustration.

431

When trouble arises

STEP 2

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ Using the tire jack

Improper use of the tire jack may lead to death or serious injuries due to
the vehicle suddenly falling off the jack.
● Do not use the tire jack for any purpose other than replacing tires or

installing and removing tire chains.

● Only use the tire jack that comes with this vehicle for replacing a flat

tire.
Do not use it on other vehicles, and do not use other tire jacks for
replacing tires on this vehicle.

● Always check that the tire jack is securely set to the jack point.
● Do not put any part of your body under the vehicle supported by a jack.
● Do not start or run the engine while your vehicle is supported by the

jack.

● When raising the vehicle, make sure that no one is in the vehicle and

unload all luggage from the vehicle.

● When raising the vehicle, do not put an object on or under the jack.
● Do not raise the vehicle to a height greater than that required to

replace the tire.

● Use a jack stand if it is necessary to get under the vehicle.

Take particular care when lowering the vehicle to ensure that no one
working on or near the vehicle may be injured.

432

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ Replacing a flat tire
● Do not touch the disc wheels or the area around the brakes immedi-

ately after the vehicle has been driven.
After the vehicle has been driven the disc wheels and the area around
the brakes will be extremely hot. Touching these areas with hands, feet
or other body parts while changing a tire, etc. may result in burns.

● Do not attach a heavily damaged wheel ornament, as it may fly off the

wheel while the vehicle is moving.

● Failure to follow these precautions could cause the wheel nuts to

loosen and the tire to fall off, resulting in death or serious injury.

• Have the wheel nuts tightened with a torque wrench to 89 ft•lbf (120
N•m, 12.2 kgf•m) as soon as possible after changing wheels.
• When installing a tire, only use wheel nuts that have been specifically designed for that wheel.
• If there are any cracks or deformations in the bolt screws, nut
threads or bolt holes of the wheel, have the vehicle inspected by
your Toyota dealer.
• When installing the wheel nuts, be sure to install them with the
tapered ends facing inward. (P. 358)
5

When trouble arises
433

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ When using the compact spare tire
● Remember that your compact spare tire is specifically designed for

use with your vehicle. Do not use your compact spare tire on another
vehicle.

● Do not use two compact spare tires simultaneously.
● Replace the compact spare tire with a standard tire as soon as possi-

ble.

● Avoid sudden acceleration, abrupt steering, sudden braking and shift-

ing operations that cause sudden engine braking.

● Install the compact spare tire on a front wheel.
■ When storing the compact spare tire

Be careful not to catch fingers or other body parts between the compact
spare tire and the body of the vehicle.
■ Speed limit when using the compact spare tire

Do not drive at speeds in excess of 50 mph (80 km/h) when a compact
spare tire is installed on the vehicle.
The compact spare tire is not designed for driving at high speeds. Failing
to observe this precaution may lead to an accident causing death or serious injury.
■ When the compact spare tire is attached

The vehicle speed may not be correctly detected, and the following systems may not operate correctly:
● ABS & brake assist
● VSC
● TRAC
● EPS
● Cruise control

434

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

NOTICE
■ Do not drive the vehicle with a flat tire.

Do not continue driving with a flat tire.
Driving even a short distance with a flat tire can damage the tire and the
wheel beyond repair.
■ Be careful when driving over bumps with the compact spare tire

installed on the vehicle.

The vehicle becomes lower when driving with the compact spare tire
compared to when driving with standard tires. Be careful when driving
over uneven road surfaces.
■ Driving with tire chains and the compact spare tire

Do not fit tire chains to the compact spare tire.
Tire chains may damage the vehicle body and adversely affect driving
performance.
■ When replacing the tires

When removing or fitting the wheels, tires or the tire pressure warning
valve and transmitter, contact your Toyota dealer as the tire pressure
warning valve and transmitter may be damaged if not handled correctly.
■ To avoid damage to the tire pressure warning valves and transmit-

ters

5

■ Stowing the jack

When stowing the jack in the jack holder, make sure that the part that the
jack handle attaches to is pointing towards the inside of the trunk. Failure
to do so may damage the vehicle body.
■ Replacing a flat tire

Do not hit and bend the disc rotor backing plate when removing and
installing the tire. A bent backing plate may scrape against the disc rotor
and cause noise while the vehicle is in motion.

435

When trouble arises

When a tire is repaired with liquid sealants, the tire pressure warning
valve and transmitter may not operate properly. If a liquid sealant is
used, contact your Toyota dealer or other qualified service shop as soon
as possible. Make sure to replace the tire pressure warning valve and
transmitter when replacing the tire. (P. 346)

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If the engine will not start
If the engine will not start even though correct starting procedures
are being followed (P. 166, 175), consider each of the following
points.

■ The engine will not start even when the starter motor operates normally.
One of the following may be the cause of the problem.
● There may not be sufficient fuel in the vehicle’s tank.
Refuel the vehicle.
● The engine may be flooded.
Try to restart the engine once more following correct starting
procedures. (P. 166, 175)
● There may be a malfunction in the engine immobilizer system.
(P. 79)
■ The starter motor turns over slowly, the interior lights and
headlights are dim, or the horn does not sound or sounds at
a low volume.
One of the following may be the cause of the problem.
● The battery may be discharged. (P. 445)
● The battery terminal connections may be loose or corroded.
■ The starter motor does not turn over. (vehicles with a smart
key system)
The engine starting system may be malfunctioning due to an
electrical problem such as an open circuit or a blown fuse. However, an interim measure is available to start the engine.
(P. 437)

436

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

■ The starter motor does not turn over, the interior lights and
headlights do not turn on, or the horn does not sound.
One of the following may be the cause of the problem.
● One or both of the battery terminals may be disconnected.
● The battery may be discharged. (P. 445)
● There may be a malfunction in the steering lock system. (vehicles with a smart key system)
Contact your Toyota dealer if the problem cannot be repaired, or if
repair procedures are unknown.

Emergency start function (vehicles with a smart key system)
When the engine does not start, the following steps can be used as
an interim measure to start the engine if the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch is functioning normally:
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 Set the parking brake.

5

STEP 2 Put the shift lever in P.

the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to ACCESSORY
mode.

STEP 4 Press and hold the “ENGINE START STOP” switch about 15

seconds while depressing the brake pedal firmly.
Even if the engine can be started using the above steps, the system
may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle checked by your Toyota
dealer.

437

When trouble arises

STEP 3 Set

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 Set the parking brake.
STEP 2 Put the shift lever in N.
STEP 3 Turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch to ACCESSORY

mode.
STEP 4 Push and hold the “ENGINE START STOP” switch for about

15 seconds while depressing the brake pedal and clutch
pedal firmly.
Even if the engine can be started using the above steps, the system
may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle checked by your Toyota
dealer.

438

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If the shift lever cannot be shifted from P (vehicles with an automatic transmission)
If the shift lever cannot be shifted with your foot on the brake, there
may be a problem with the shift lock system (a system to prevent
accidental operation of the shift lever). Have the vehicle inspected by
your Toyota dealer immediately.
The following steps may be used as an emergency measure to
ensure that the shift lever can be shifted.
STEP 1 Set the parking brake.
STEP 2 Vehicles

without a smart key system: Turn the engine
switch to the “ACC” position.
Vehicles with a smart key system: Turn the “ENGINE
START STOP” switch to ACCESSORY mode.

STEP 3 Depress the brake pedal.
STEP 4

Pry the cover up with a flathead screwdriver or equivalent.

5

Press the shift lock override
button.
The shift lever can be shifted
while the button is pressed.

439

When trouble arises

STEP 5

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If you lose your keys
New genuine keys can be made by your Toyota dealer. For vehicles
without a smart key system, bring a master key and the key number
stamped on the key number plate. For vehicles with a smart key system, bring the other key and the key number stamped on the key
number plate.

440

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If the electronic key does not operate properly (vehicles with a smart key system)
If communication between the electronic key and vehicle is interrupted (P. 31) or the electronic key cannot be used because the
battery is depleted, the smart key system and wireless remote control cannot be used. In such cases, the doors and trunk can be
opened or the engine can be started by following the procedure
below.

Unlocking and locking the doors, unlocking the trunk
Use the mechanical key built in to the electronic keys to operate the
doors and trunk. (P. 23)
Vehicles with an alarm: An alarm will sound if the alarm is set when the
trunk or doors are unlocked. (P. 82)

Doors
Locks driver’s door
Unlocks driver’s door

5

Turn the mechanical key clockwise to open.

441

When trouble arises

Trunk

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Starting the engine
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
STEP 1 Ensure that the shift lever is in P and firmly depress the brake

pedal.
STEP 2

Touch the Toyota emblem side of
the electronic key to the
“ENGINE START STOP” switch.
When the electronic key is
detected, a buzzer sounds and
the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch will turn to IGNITION ON
mode.
When the smart key system is
deactivated in customization setting, the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch will turn to ACCESSORY
mode.

STEP 3 Firmly depress the brake pedal and check that the smart key

system indicator light (green) turns on.
STEP 4 Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch.

In the event that the “ENGINE START STOP” switch still cannot be
operated, contact your Toyota dealer.

442

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

Vehicles with a manual transmission
STEP 1 Ensure that the shift lever is in N and depress the clutch

pedal.
STEP 2

Touch the Toyota emblem side of
the electronic key to the
“ENGINE START STOP” switch.
When the electronic key is
detected, a buzzer sounds and
the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch will turn to IGNITION ON
mode.
When the smart key system is
deactivated in customization setting, the “ENGINE START STOP”
switch will turn to ACCESSORY
mode.

STEP 3 Firmly depress the clutch pedal and check that the smart key

system indicator light (green) turns on.
STEP 4 Press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch.

In the event that the “ENGINE START STOP” switch still cannot be
operated, contact your Toyota dealer.

5

When trouble arises
443

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

■ Stopping the engine
Vehicles with an automatic transmission: Shift the shift lever to P and press
the “ENGINE START STOP” switch as you normally do when stopping the
engine.
Vehicles with a manual transmission: Shift the shift lever to N and press the
“ENGINE START STOP” switch as you normally do when stopping the
engine.
■ Replacing the key battery
As the above procedure is a temporary measure, it is recommended that the
electronic key battery be replaced immediately when the battery depletes.
(P. 363)
■ Alarm
Using the mechanical key to lock the doors will not set the alarm system.
If a door is unlocked using the mechanical key when the alarm system is set,
the alarm may be triggered. (P. 82)
■ Changing “ENGINE START STOP” switch modes
Vehicles with an automatic transmission
Release the brake pedal and press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in
STEP 3 above.The engine does not start and modes will be changed each
time the switch is pressed. (P. 169)
Vehicles with a manual transmission
Release the clutch pedal and press the “ENGINE START STOP” switch in
STEP 3 above.The engine does not start and modes will be changed each
time the switch is pressed. (P. 169)
■ If the doors cannot be locked or unlocked by the smart key system
Lock and unlock the doors by the mechanical key or wireless remote control.

444

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If the battery is discharged
The following procedures may be used to start the engine if the vehicle's battery is discharged.
You can call your Toyota dealer or a qualified repair shop.

If you have a set of jumper (or booster) cables and a second vehicle with a 12-volt battery, you can jump start your vehicle following
the steps below.
STEP 1 Connect the jumper cables according to the following pro-

cedures:

5

Positive (+) battery terminal on the second vehicle
Negative (-) battery terminal on the second vehicle
Connect the jumper cable to ground on your vehicle as shown in
the illustration.

445

When trouble arises

Positive (+) battery terminal on your vehicle

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

STEP 2 Start the engine of the second vehicle. Increase the engine

speed slightly and maintain at that level for approximately 5
minutes to recharge the battery of your vehicle.
STEP 3 Vehicles with a smart key system only: Open and close any

of the doors of your vehicle with the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch off.
STEP 4 Vehicles without a smart key system: Maintain the engine

speed of the second vehicle and turn the engine switch to
the “ON” position, then start the vehicle's engine.
Vehicles with a smart key system: Maintain the engine
speed of the second vehicle and turn the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch to IGNITION ON mode, then start the vehicle's engine.
STEP 5 Once the vehicle’s engine has started, remove the jumper

cables in the exact reverse order in which they were connected.
Once the engine starts, have the vehicle checked at your Toyota
dealer as soon as possible.

446

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

■ Starting the engine when the battery is discharged
The engine cannot be started by push-starting.
■ Avoiding a discharged battery
● Turn off the headlights and the air conditioning system while the engine is
off.
● Turn off any unnecessary electrical components when the vehicle is running at a low speed for an extended period, such as in heavy traffic, etc.
■ Charging the battery
The electricity stored in the battery will discharge gradually even when the
vehicle is not in use, due to natural discharge and the draining effects of certain electrical appliances. If the vehicle is left for a long time, the battery may
discharge, and the engine may be unable to start. (The battery recharges
automatically during driving.)
■ Precautions when the battery is discharged (vehicles with a smart key
system)
● In some cases, it may not be possible to unlock the doors using the smart
key system when the battery is discharged. Use the wireless remote control or the mechanical key to lock or unlock the doors.
● The engine may not start on the first attempt after the battery has
recharged but will start normally after the second attempt. This is not a
malfunction.

447

When trouble arises

● The “ENGINE START STOP” switch mode is memorized by the vehicle.
When the battery is reconnected, the system will return to the mode it
was in before the battery was discharged. Before disconnecting the battery, turn the “ENGINE START STOP” switch off.
If you are unsure what mode the “ENGINE START STOP” switch was in
before the battery discharged, be especially careful when reconnecting
the battery.

5

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ Avoiding battery fires or explosions
Observe the following precautions to prevent accidentally igniting the flammable gas that may be emitted from the battery.
● Make sure the jumper cable is connected to the correct terminal and that it
is not unintentionally in contact with any part other than the intended terminal.
● Do not allow the jumper cables to come into contact with the “+” and “-” terminals.
● Do not allow open flame or use matches, cigarette lighters or smoke near
the battery.
■ Battery precautions
The battery contains poisonous and corrosive acidic electrolyte, while
related parts contain lead and lead compounds. Observe the following precautions when handling the battery.
● When working with the battery, always wear safety glasses and take care
not to allow any battery fluids (acid) to come into contact with skin, clothing
or the vehicle body.
● Do not lean over the battery.
● In the event that battery fluid comes into contact with the skin or eyes,
immediately wash the affected area with water and seek medical attention.
Place a wet sponge or cloth over the affected area until medical attention
can be received.
● Always wash your hands after handling the battery support, terminals, and
other battery-related parts.
● Do not allow children near the battery.
■ To prevent damage to the vehicle
Do not pull- or push-start the vehicle as the three-way catalytic converter
may overheat and become a fire hazard.

448

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

NOTICE
■ When handling jumper cables
Be careful that the jumper cables do not become tangled in the cooling fans
or any of the belts when connecting or disconnecting them.
■ When closing the doors
While pushing the door glass towards the inside of the vehicle, slowly close
the door.
Because the side window open/close function linked to door operation will
not operate, the window may interfere with the vehicle body, possibly
scratching both the vehicle body and window, or even shattering the window.

5

When trouble arises
449

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If your vehicle overheats
The following may indicate that your vehicle is overheating.

● Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display: The
engine coolant temperature gauge (P. 191) enters the red
zone or a loss of engine power is experienced (for example, the
vehicle speed does not increase).
Vehicles with a color multi-information display: The high engine
coolant temperature warning light (P. 194) flashes or illuminates or a loss of engine power is experienced (for example, the
vehicle speed does not increase).
● Steam comes out from under the hood.

Correction procedures
STEP 1 Stop the vehicle in a safe place and turn off the air condition-

ing system, and then stop the engine.
STEP 2 If you see steam:

Carefully lift the hood after the steam subsides.
If you do not see steam:
Carefully lift the hood.
STEP 3

After the engine has cooled
down sufficiently, inspect the
hoses and radiator core (radiator) for any leaks.
Radiator
Cooling fans
If a large amount of coolant leaks,
immediately contact your Toyota
dealer.

450

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

The coolant level is satisfactory if
it is between the “FULL” and
“LOW” lines on the reservoir.

STEP 4

Reservoir
“FULL”
“LOW”
Radiator cap
Add coolant if necessary.

STEP 5

Water can be used in an emergency if coolant is unavailable.

STEP 6 Start the engine and turn the air conditioning system on to

check that the radiator cooling fans operate and to check for
coolant leaks from the radiator or hoses.

STEP 7 If the fans are not operating:

Stop the engine immediately and contact your Toyota dealer.
If the fans are operating:
Have the vehicle inspected at the nearest Toyota dealer.

451

5

When trouble arises

The fans operate when the air conditioning system is turned on
immediately after a cold start. Confirm that the fans are operating by
checking the fan sound and air flow. If it is difficult to check these,
turn the air conditioning system on and off repeatedly.
(The fans may not operate in freezing temperatures.)

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ To prevent an accident or injury when inspecting under the hood of
your vehicle
● If steam is seen coming from under the hood, do not open the hood until
the steam has subsided. The engine compartment may be very hot, causing serious injuries such as burns.
● Keep hands and clothing (especially a tie, a scarf or a muffler) away from
the fans and belts. Failure to do so may cause the hands or clothing to be
caught, resulting in serious injury.
● Do not loosen the radiator cap and the coolant reservoir cap while the
engine and radiator are hot.
Serious injury, such as burns, may result from hot coolant and steam
released under pressure.

NOTICE
■ When adding engine coolant
Wait until the engine has cooled down before adding engine coolant.
When adding coolant, do so slowly. Adding cool coolant to a hot engine too
quickly can cause damage to the engine.
■ To prevent damage to the cooling system
Observe the following precautions:
● Avoid contaminating the coolant with foreign matter (such as sand or dust
etc.).
● Do not use any coolant additives.

452

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If the vehicle becomes stuck
Carry out the following procedures if the tires spin or the vehicle
becomes stuck in mud, dirt, or snow:
STEP 1 Stop the engine. Set the parking brake and shift the shift

lever to P (vehicles with an automatic transmission) or N
(vehicles with a manual transmission).
STEP 2 Remove

the mud, snow or sand from around the rear

wheels.
STEP 3 Place wood, stones or some other material under the rear

wheels to help provide traction.
STEP 4 Restart the engine.
STEP 5 Shift the shift lever to the D or R position (vehicles with an

automatic transmission) or 1 or R position (vehicles with a
manual transmission) and release the parking brake. Then,
while exercising caution, depress the accelerator pedal.

■ When it is difficult to free the vehicle
Press

5

to turn off TRAC.

When trouble arises
453

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

WARNING
■ When attempting to free a stuck vehicle
If you choose to push the vehicle back and forth to free it, make sure the surrounding area is clear to avoid striking other vehicles, objects or people. The
vehicle may also lunge forward or lunge back suddenly as it becomes free.
Use extreme caution.
■ When shifting the shift lever
For vehicles with an automatic transmission, be careful not to shift the shift
lever with the accelerator pedal depressed.
This may lead to unexpected rapid acceleration of the vehicle that may
cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury.

NOTICE
■ To avoid damage to the transmission and other components
● Avoid spinning the rear wheels and depressing the accelerator pedal more
than necessary.
● If the vehicle remains stuck even after these procedures are performed,
the vehicle may require towing to be freed.

454

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

If your vehicle has to be stopped in an emergency
Only in an emergency, such as if it becomes impossible to stop the
vehicle in the normal way, stop the vehicle using the following procedure:
STEP 1 Steadily step on the brake pedal with both feet and firmly

depress it.
Do not pump the brake pedal repeatedly as this will increase the
effort required to slow the vehicle.
STEP 2 Shift the shift lever to N.

If the shift lever is shifted to N
STEP 3 After slowing down, stop the vehicle in a safe place by the

road.
STEP 4 Stop the engine.

If the shift lever cannot be shifted to N
STEP 3 Keep depressing the brake pedal with both feet to reduce

vehicle speed as much as possible.
STEP 4

Vehicles without a smart key
system: Stop the engine by
turning the engine switch to
the “ACC” position.

5

When trouble arises
455

5-2. Steps to take in an emergency

STEP 4

Press and hold for 2 seconds or more,
or press briefly 3 times or more

Vehicles with a smart key system: To stop the engine, press
and hold the “ENGINE START
STOP” switch for 2 consecutive seconds or more, or press
it briefly 3 times or more in
succession.

STEP 5 Stop the vehicle in a safe place by the road.

WARNING
■ If the engine has to be turned off while driving
● Power assist for the brakes and steering wheel will be lost, making the
brake pedal harder to depress and the steering wheel heavier to turn.
Decelerate as much as possible before turning off the engine.
● Vehicles without a smart key system: Never attempt to remove the key, as
doing so will lock the steering wheel.

456

Vehicle specifications

6
6-1. Specifications
Maintenance data
(fuel, oil level, etc.) ......... 458
Fuel information ............... 470
Tire information ................ 474
6-2. Customization
Customizable features ..... 487

457

6-1. Specifications

Maintenance data (fuel, oil level, etc.)
Dimensions and weight
Overall length

166.7 in. (4235 mm)

Overall width

69.9 in. (1775 mm)

Overall height*

52.0 in. (1320 mm)

Wheelbase

101.2 in. (2570 mm)

Tread

Front

59.8 in. (1520 mm)

Rear

60.6 in. (1540 mm)

Vehicle capacity weight
(Occupants + luggage)

*: Unladen vehicle

458

Details are described on the tire and loading information label. (P. 353)

6-1. Specifications

Vehicle identification
■ Vehicle identification number
The vehicle identification number (VIN) is the legal identifier for
your vehicle. This is the primary identification number for your
Toyota. It is used in registering the ownership of your vehicle.
This number is stamped under
the right-hand front seat.

This number is located on the
top left of the body panel.

This number is also on the Certification Label.

6

Vehicle specifications
459

6-1. Specifications

■ Engine number
The engine number is stamped on the engine block as shown.

460

6-1. Specifications

Engine
Model

FA20

Type

Horizontally opposed, liquid cooled 4 cylinder, 4stroke gasoline

Bore and stroke

3.39 3.39 in. (86.0  86.0 mm)

Displacement

121.93 cu.in. (1998 cm3)

Drive belt tension

Automatic adjustment

Fuel
Fuel type

Unleaded gasoline only

Octane rating

93 (Research octane number 98) or higher*

Fuel tank capacity
(Reference)

13.2 gal. (50 L, 11.0 Imp. gal.)

*: If unleaded gasoline with an octane rating of 93 (98 RON) is not available,
unleaded gasoline with an octane rating of 91 (95 RON) may be used with
no detriment to engine durability or driveability.

6

Vehicle specifications
461

6-1. Specifications

Lubrication system
Oil capacity
(Drain and refill 
reference*)
Without filter
With filter

5.5 qt. (5.2 L, 4.6 Imp. qt.)
5.7 qt. (5.4 L, 4.8 Imp. qt.)

*: The engine oil capacity is a reference quantity to be used when changing
the engine oil. Warm up and turn off the engine, wait more than 5 minutes,
and check the oil level on the dipstick.

■ Engine oil selection
“Toyota Genuine Motor Oil” is used in your Toyota vehicle. Use
Toyota approved “Toyota Genuine Motor Oil” or equivalent to satisfy
the following grade and viscosity.
Oil grade: ILSAC GF-5 multigrade engine oil
Recommended viscosity: SAE 0W-20

Outside temperature

462

SAE 0W-20 is the best choice for
good fuel economy and good
starting in cold weather.
If SAE 0W-20 is not available,
SAE 5W-20 oil may be used.
However, it must be replaced
with SAE 0W-20 at the next oil
change.

6-1. Specifications

Oil viscosity (0W-20 is explained here as an example):
• The 0W in 0W-20 indicates the characteristic of the oil which allows
cold startability. Oils with a lower value before the W allow for easier
starting of the engine in cold weather.
• The 20 in 0W-20 indicates the viscosity characteristic of the oil when
the oil is at high temperature. An oil with a higher viscosity (one with a
higher value) may be better suited if the vehicle is operated at high
speeds, or under extreme load conditions.

How to read oil container label:
The International Lubricant Specification Advisory Committee
(ILSAC) Certification Mark is added to some oil containers to help
you select the oil you should use.

6

Vehicle specifications
463

6-1. Specifications

Cooling system

Capacity

Vehicles with an automatic transmission
7.9 qt. (7.5 L, 6.6 Imp. qt.)
Vehicles with a manual transmission
7.6 qt. (7.2 L, 6.3 Imp. qt.)

Coolant type

Use either of the following.
• “TOYOTA Genuine 50/50 Pre-mixed Super Long
Life Coolant BLUE”
• Similar high-quality ethylene glycol-based nonsilicate, non-amine, non-nitrite, and non-borate
coolant with long-life hybrid organic acid technology
Do not use plain water alone.

Ignition system
Spark plug
Make
Gap

DENSO ZXE27HBR8
0.031 in. (0.8 mm)

NOTICE
■ Iridium-tipped spark plugs
Use only iridium-tipped spark plugs. Do not adjust gap when tuning engine.

464

6-1. Specifications

Electrical system
Battery
Specific gravity reading at
68F (20C):

1.250  1.290 Fully charged
1.160  1.200 Half charged
1.060  1.100 Discharged

Charging rates
Quick charge
Slow charge

15 A max.
5 A max.

Differential
Oil capacity (Reference)

1.20 qt. (1.15 L, 1.01 Imp. qt.)

Oil type and viscosity*

• Toyota Genuine Differential Gear Oil LX
• Other LSD gear oil that meets API GL-5 and
SAE 75W-85

*: Your Toyota vehicle is filled with “Toyota Genuine Differential Gear Oil” at the
factory. Use Toyota approved “Toyota Genuine Differential Gear Oil” or an
equivalent of matching quality to satisfy the above specification. Please contact your Toyota dealer for further details.

NOTICE
6

■ Differential gear oil

465

Vehicle specifications

Using a differential gear oil other than “Toyota Genuine Differential Gear Oil
LX” may cause occurrences of noises, vibrations and poor fuel consumption.
Never use different brands together.

6-1. Specifications

Automatic transmission
Fluid capacity*

7.9 qt. (7.5 L, 6.6 Imp. qt.)

Fluid type

TOYOTA Genuine ATF WS

*: The fluid capacity is provided as a reference. If replacement is necessary,
contact your Toyota dealer.

NOTICE
Using automatic transmission fluid other than “TOYOTA Genuine ATF WS”
may cause deterioration in shift quality, locking up of your transmission accompanied by vibration, and ultimately damage the automatic transmission of your
vehicle.

Manual transmission
Gear oil capacity (Reference)

2.3 qt. (2.2 L, 1.9 Imp. qt.)

Gear oil type and viscosity

Use either of the following:
• “TOYOTA Genuine MG Gear Oil special
II”
• Other gear oil that meets API GL-3* and
SAE 75W-90 specifications

*: The recommended oil grade is API GL-3. However, API GL-4 can also be
used.

NOTICE
■ Manual transmission gear oil
Using a manual transmission gear oil other than “TOYOTA Genuine MG
Gear Oil special II” may cause occurrences of rattling noises while idling and
poor fuel consumption.
Never use different brands together.

466

6-1. Specifications

Clutch
Pedal free play

0.2  0.6 in. (5  15 mm)

Fluid type

SAE J1703 or FMVSS No.116 DOT 3

Brakes
Pedal clearance*1

2.16 in. (55 mm) Min.

Pedal free play

0.020  0.106 in. (0.5  2.7 mm)

Brake pad wear
limit (vehicles without brembo brake)

Front

0.06 in. (1.5 mm)

Rear

0.06 in. (1.5 mm)

Brake pad wear
limit (vehicles with
brembo brake)

Front

0.05 in. (1.2 mm)

Rear

0.06 in. (1.6 mm)

Parking brake lining wear limit

0.06 in. (1.5 mm)

Parking brake lever travel*2

7  8 clicks

Fluid type

SAE J1703 or FMVSS No.116 DOT 3

*1: Minimum pedal clearance when depressed with a force of 110 lbf (490 N, 50
kgf) while the engine is running.

*

2: Parking brake lever travel when pulled up with a force of 45.0 lbf (200 N,

20.4 kgf).

6

Vehicle specifications
467

6-1. Specifications

Steering
Free play

Less than 1.2 in. (30 mm)

Tires and wheels
Type A
Tire size

215/45R17 87W, T135/80D16 101M

Tire inflation pressure
(Recommended cold tire
inflation pressure)

Front: 35 psi (240 kPa, 2.4 kgf/cm2 or bar)
Rear: 35 psi (240 kPa, 2.4 kgf/cm2 or bar)
Spare: 60 psi (420 kPa, 4.2 kgf/cm2 or bar)

Wheel size

17  7 J, 16  4T (compact spare)

Wheel nut torque

89 ft•lbf (120 N•m, 12.2 kgf•m)

Type B
Tire size

P215/45R17 87V, T135/80D16 101M

Tire inflation pressure
(Recommended cold tire
inflation pressure)

Front: 35 psi (240 kPa, 2.4 kgf/cm2 or bar)
Rear: 35 psi (240 kPa, 2.4 kgf/cm2 or bar)
Spare: 60 psi (420 kPa, 4.2 kgf/cm2 or bar)

Wheel size

17  7 J, 16  4T (compact spare)

Wheel nut torque

89 ft•lbf (120 N•m, 12.2 kgf•m)

Type C
Tire size

215/40R18 85Y, T145/70D17 106M

Tire inflation pressure
(Recommended cold tire
inflation pressure)

Front: 35 psi (240 kPa, 2.4 kgf/cm2 or bar)
Rear: 35 psi (240 kPa, 2.4 kgf/cm2 or bar)
Spare: 60 psi (420 kPa, 4.2 kgf/cm2 or bar)

Wheel size

18  7 1/2 J, 17  4T (compact spare)

Wheel nut torque

89 ft•lbf (120 N•m, 12.2 kgf•m)

468

6-1. Specifications

Light bulbs
Light Bulbs

Exterior

Interior

Bulb No.

W

Type

Front side marker lights

#194

3.8

A

License plate lights

W5W

5

A

Back-up lights

W16W

16

A

Trunk light

W5W

5

B

Interior light



10

C

A: Wedge base bulbs (clear)
B: Wedge base bulbs (amber)
C: Double end bulbs

6

Vehicle specifications
469

6-1. Specifications

Fuel information
The engine is designed to operate at maximum performance using
unleaded gasoline with an octane rating of 93 (98 RON) or higher. If
an octane rating of 93 (98 RON) fuel is not readily available in your
area, unleaded gasoline with an octane rating of 91 (95 RON) may be
used with no detriment to engine durability or driveability. However,
you may notice a slight decrease in maximum engine performance
and you may hear some knocking (pinging) of an engine while using
an octane rating of 91 (95 RON) fuel.
If the octane rating is less than 91, damage to the engine may occur
and may void the vehicle warranty.

■ Fuel tank opening for unleaded gasoline
To help prevent incorrect fueling, your Toyota has a fuel tank opening that
only accommodates the special nozzle on unleaded fuel pumps.
■ If your engine knocks
● Consult your Toyota dealer.
● You may occasionally notice light knocking for a short time while accelerating or driving uphill. This is normal and there is no need for concern.

470

6-1. Specifications

■ Gasoline quality
In very few cases, driveability problems may be caused by the brand of gasoline you are using. If driveability problems persist, try changing the brand of
gasoline. If this does not correct the problem, consult your Toyota dealer.
■ Fuel octane rating
This octane rating is the average of the Research Octane and Motor Octane
numbers and is commonly referred to as the Anti Knock Index.
Using a gasoline with a lower octane rating can cause persistent and heavy
knocking, which can damage the engine. Do not be concerned if your vehicle sometimes knocks lightly when you drive up a hill or when you accelerate. Contact your Toyota dealer if you use a fuel with the specified octane
rating and your vehicle knocks heavily or persistently.
■ Gasoline for California-certified LEV
If your vehicle was certified to California’s low emission vehicle (LEV) standards as indicated on the underhood tune-up label, it is designed to optimize
engine and emission performance with gasoline that meets the clean burning low-sulfur California gasoline specifications. If you live in any other state
than California, your vehicle will operate on gasoline meeting Federal specifications. Gasoline sold outside California is permitted to have higher sulfur
levels, which may affect the performance of your vehicle’s catalytic converter
and may produce a sulfur exhaust odor or smell. Toyota recommends that
you try a different brand of unleaded gasoline having lower sulfur to determine if the problem is fuel related before returning your vehicle to an authorized dealer for service.

6

Vehicle specifications
471

6-1. Specifications

■ Toyota recommends the use of gasoline containing detergent additives
● Toyota recommends the use of gasoline that contains detergent additives
to avoid build-up of engine deposits.
● All gasoline sold in the U.S.A. contains minimum detergent additives to
clean and/or keep clean intake systems, per EPA’s lowest additives concentration program.
● Toyota strongly recommends the use of Top Tier Detergent Gasoline. For
more information on Top Tier Detergent Gasoline and a list of marketers,
please go to the official website www.toptiergas.com.
■ Toyota recommends the use of cleaner burning gasoline
Cleaner burning gasoline, including reformulated gasoline that contains oxygenates such as ethanol is available in many areas.
Toyota recommends the use of cleaner burning gasoline and appropriately
blended reformulated gasoline. These types of gasoline provide excellent
vehicle performance, reduce vehicle emissions and improve air quality.
■ Non-recommendation of the use of blended gasoline
DO NOT use gasoline
containing more than 10%
ethanol.
(15% ethanol)
(50% ethanol)
(85% ethanol)

● Use only gasoline containing a maximum of 10% ethanol.
DO NOT use any flex-fuel or gasoline
that could contain more than 10% ethanol, including from any pump labeled
E15, E30, E50, E85 (which are only
some examples of fuel containing more
than 10% ethanol).

● If you use gasohol in your vehicle, be sure that it has an octane rating no
lower than 93.
● Toyota DOES NOT recommend the use of gasoline containing methanol.

472

6-1. Specifications

■ Toyota does not recommend gasoline containing MMT
Some gasoline contains octane enhancing additive called MMT (Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl).
Toyota DOES NOT recommend the use of gasoline that contains MMT. If
fuel containing MMT is used, your emission control system may be
adversely affected.
The malfunction indicator lamp on the instrument cluster may come on. If
this happens, contact your Toyota dealer for service.

NOTICE
■ Notice on fuel quality
● Do not use improper fuels. If improper fuels are used the engine will be
damaged.
● Do not use leaded gasoline.
Leaded gasoline can cause damage to your vehicle’s three-way catalytic
converters causing the emission control system to malfunction.
● Do not use gasohol other than the type previously stated.
Other gasohol may cause fuel system damage or vehicle performance
problems.
● Using unleaded gasoline with an octane number or rating lower than the
level previously stated may cause persistent heavy knocking.
At worst, this may lead to engine damage and will void the vehicle warranty.
■ Fuel-related poor driveability

■ When refueling with gasohol
Take care not to spill gasohol. It can damage your vehicle's paint.

473

6

Vehicle specifications

If after using a different type of fuel, poor driveability is encountered (poor
hot starting, vaporization, engine knocking, etc.), discontinue the use of that
type of fuel.

6-1. Specifications

Tire information
Typical tire symbols

Standard tire

Compact spare tire

Tire size

(P. 477)

DOT and Tire Identification Number (TIN)

(P. 476)

Uniform tire quality grading
For details, see “Uniform Tire Quality Grading” that follows.

Location of treadwear indicators
474

(P. 345)

6-1. Specifications

Tire ply composition and materials
Plies are layers of rubber-coated parallel cords. Cords are the
strands which form the plies in a tire.

Radial tires or bias-ply tires
A radial tire has “RADIAL” on the sidewall. A tire not marked
“RADIAL” is a bias-ply tire.

TUBELESS or TUBE TYPE
A tubeless tire does not have a tube and air is directly filled in the
tire. A tube type tire has a tube inside the tire and the tube maintains the air pressure.

Load limit at maximum cold tire inflation pressure

(P. 348)

Maximum cold tire inflation pressure

(P. 468)

This means the pressure to which a tire may be inflated.

Summer tire or all season tire

(P. 348)

An all season tire has “M+S” on the sidewall. A tire not marked
“M+S” is a summer tire.

“TEMPORARY USE ONLY”

(P. 430)

A compact spare tire is identified by the phrase “TEMPORARY
USE ONLY” molded into its sidewall. This tire is designed for temporary emergency use only.

6

Vehicle specifications
475

6-1. Specifications

Typical DOT and tire identification number (TIN)
Type A
DOT symbol*
Tire Identification
(TIN)

Number

Tire manufacturer's identification mark
Tire size code

Type B

Manufacturer's optional
type code (3 or 4 letters)

tire

Manufacturing week
Manufacturing year
Manufacturer's code

*: The DOT symbol certifies
that the tire conforms to
applicable Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards.

476

6-1. Specifications

Tire size
■ Typical tire size information
The illustration indicates typical
tire size.
Tire use
(P = Passenger car,
T = Temporary use)
Section width (millimeters)
Aspect ratio
(tire height to section width)
Tire construction code
(R = Radial, D = Diagonal)
Wheel diameter (inches)
Load index (2 or 3 digits)
Speed symbol
(alphabet with one letter)
■ Tire dimensions
Section width
Tire height
Wheel diameter
6

Vehicle specifications
477

6-1. Specifications

Tire section names
Bead
Sidewall
Shoulder
Tread
Belt
Inner liner
Reinforcing rubber
Carcass
Rim lines
Bead wires
Chafer
Uniform Tire Quality Grading
This information has been prepared in accordance with regulations
issued by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the
U.S. Department of Transportation.
It provides the purchasers and/or prospective purchasers of Toyota
vehicles with information on uniform tire quality grading.
Your Toyota dealer will help answer any questions you may have as
you read this information.

■ DOT quality grades
All passenger vehicle tires must conform to Federal Safety
Requirements in addition to these grades. Quality grades can be
found where applicable on the tire sidewall between tread shoulder
and maximum section width.
For example: Treadwear 200 Traction AA Temperature A

478

6-1. Specifications

■ Treadwear
The treadwear grade is a comparative rating based on the wear
rate of the tire when tested under controlled conditions on a specified government test course.
For example, a tire graded 150 would wear one and a half (1 - 1/2)
times as well on the government course as a tire graded 100.
The relative performance of tires depends upon the actual conditions
of their use. Performance may differ significantly from the norm due
to variations in driving habits, service practices and differences in
road characteristics and climate.

■ Traction AA, A, B, C
The traction grades, from highest to lowest, are AA, A, B and C,
and they represent the tire’s ability to stop on wet pavement as
measured under controlled conditions on specified government
test surfaces of asphalt and concrete.
A tire marked C may have poor traction performance.
Warning: The traction grade assigned to this tire is based on braking
(straight ahead) traction tests and does not include cornering (turning) traction.

■ Temperature A, B, C
The temperature grades are A (the highest), B, and C, representing the tire’s resistance to the generation of heat and its ability to
dissipate heat when tested under controlled conditions on a specified indoor laboratory test wheel.

Grade C corresponds to a level of performance which all passenger
car tires must meet under the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
No. 109.
Grades B and A represent higher levels of performance on the laboratory test wheel than the minimum required by law.

479

Vehicle specifications

Sustained high temperature can cause the material of the tire to
degenerate and reduce tire life, and excessive temperature can lead
to sudden tire failure.

6

6-1. Specifications

Warning: The temperature grades of a tire assume that it is properly
inflated and not overloaded.
Excessive speed, underinflation, or excessive loading, either separately or in combination, can cause heat buildup and possible tire failure.

Glossary of tire terminology
Tire related term

Meaning

Cold tire inflation
pressure

Tire pressure when the vehicle has been
parked for three hours or more, or has not
been driven more than 1 mile or 1.5 km under
that condition

Maximum inflation
pressure

The maximum cold inflated pressure to which a
tire may be inflated, shown on the sidewall of
the tire

Recommended
inflation pressure

Cold tire inflation pressure recommended by a
manufacturer.

Accessory weight

The combined weight (in excess of those standard items which may be replaced) of automatic transmission, power steering, power
brakes, power windows, power seats, radio
and heater, to the extent that these items are
available as factory-installed equipment
(whether installed or not)

Curb weight

The weight of a motor vehicle with standard
equipment, including the maximum capacity of
fuel, oil and coolant, and if so equipped, air
conditioning and additional weight optional
engine

Maximum loaded
vehicle weight

The sum of:
(a) Curb weight
(b) Accessory weight
(c) Vehicle capacity weight
(d) Production options weight

480

6-1. Specifications

Tire related term

Meaning
150 lb. (68 kg) times the number of occupants
specified in the second column of Table 1* that
follows

Occupant distribution

Distribution of occupants in a vehicle as specified in the third column of Table 1* below

Production options
weight

The combined weight of installed regular production options weighing over 5 lb. (2.3 kg) in
excess of the standard items which they
replace, not previously considered in curb
weight or accessory weight, including heavy
duty brakes, ride levelers, roof rack, heavy duty
battery, and special trim

Rim

A metal support for a tire or a tire and tube
assembly upon which the tire beads are seated

Rim diameter
(Wheel diameter)

Nominal diameter of the bead seat

Rim size designation

Rim diameter and width

Rim type designation

The industry manufacturer’s designation for a
rim by style or code

Rim width

Nominal distance between rim flanges

Vehicle capacity
weight (Total load
capacity)

The rated cargo and luggage load plus 150 lb.
(68 kg) times the vehicle’s designated seating
capacity

Vehicle maximum load
on the tire

The load on an individual tire that is determined
by distributing to each axle its share of the
maximum loaded vehicle weight, and dividing
by two

481

6

Vehicle specifications

Normal occupant
weight

6-1. Specifications

Tire related term

Meaning

Vehicle normal load
on the tire

The load on an individual tire that is determined
by distributing to each axle its share of curb
weight, accessory weight, and normal occupant weight (distributed in accordance with
Table 1* below), and dividing by two

Weather side

The surface area of the rim not covered by the
inflated tire

Bead

The part of the tire that is made of steel wires,
wrapped or reinforced by ply cords and that is
shaped to fit the rim

Bead separation

A breakdown of the bond between components
in the bead

Bias ply tire

A pneumatic tire in which the ply cords that
extend to the beads are laid at alternate angles
substantially less than 90 degrees to the centerline of the tread

Carcass

The tire structure, except tread and sidewall
rubber which, when inflated, bears the load

Chunking

The breaking away of pieces of the tread or
sidewall

Cord

The strands forming the plies in the tire

Cord separation

The parting of cords from adjacent rubber compounds

Cracking

Any parting within the tread, sidewall, or innerliner of the tire extending to cord material

CT

A pneumatic tire with an inverted flange tire
and rim system in which the rim is designed
with rim flanges pointed radially inward and the
tire is designed to fit on the underside of the
rim in a manner that encloses the rim flanges
inside the air cavity of the tire

482

6-1. Specifications

Tire related term

Meaning

Extra load tire

A tire designed to operate at higher loads and
at higher inflation pressures than the corresponding standard tire

Groove

The space between two adjacent tread ribs

Innerliner

The layer(s) forming the inside surface of a
tubeless tire that contains the inflating medium
within the tire

Innerliner separation

The parting of the innerliner from cord material
in the carcass

Intended outboard
sidewall

(a)The sidewall that contains a whitewall, bears
white lettering, or bears manufacturer, brand,
and/or model name molding that is higher or
deeper than the same molding on the other
sidewall of the tire, or
(b)The outward facing sidewall of an asymmetrical tire that has a particular side that must
always face outward when mounted on a vehicle

Light truck (LT) tire

A tire designated by its manufacturer as primarily intended for use on lightweight trucks or
multipurpose passenger vehicles

Load rating

The maximum load that a tire is rated to carry
for a given inflation pressure
The load rating for a tire at the maximum permissible inflation pressure for that tire

6

Maximum load rating
Maximum permissible
inflation pressure

The maximum cold inflation pressure to which
a tire may be inflated

Measuring rim

The rim on which a tire is fitted for physical
dimension requirements

Open splice

Any parting at any junction of tread, sidewall, or
innerliner that extends to cord material

Vehicle specifications

Outer diameter

The overall diameter of an inflated new tire

483

6-1. Specifications

Tire related term

Meaning

Overall width

The linear distance between the exteriors of
the sidewalls of an inflated tire, including elevations due to labeling, decorations, or protective
bands or ribs

Passenger car tire

A tire intended for use on passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, and trucks, that
have a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of
10,000 lb. or less.

Ply

A layer of rubber-coated parallel cords

Ply separation

A parting of rubber compound between adjacent plies

Pneumatic tire

A mechanical device made of rubber, chemicals, fabric and steel or other materials, that,
when mounted on an automotive wheel, provides the traction and contains the gas or fluid
that sustains the load

Radial ply tire

A pneumatic tire in which the ply cords that
extend to the beads are laid at substantially 90
degrees to the centerline of the tread

Reinforced tire

A tire designed to operate at higher loads and
at higher inflation pressures than the corresponding standard tire

Section width

The linear distance between the exteriors of
the sidewalls of an inflated tire, excluding elevations due to labeling, decoration, or protective bands

Sidewall

That portion of a tire between the tread and
bead

Sidewall separation

The parting of the rubber compound from the
cord material in the sidewall

484

6-1. Specifications

Tire related term

Snow tire

Meaning
A tire that attains a traction index equal to or
greater than 110, compared to the ASTM E1136 Standard Reference Test Tire, when
using the snow traction test as described in
ASTM F-1805-00, Standard Test Method for
Single Wheel Driving Traction in a Straight Line
on Snow-and Ice-Covered Surfaces, and which
is marked with an Alpine Symbol (
least one sidewall

) on at

Test rim

The rim on which a tire is fitted for testing, and
may be any rim listed as appropriate for use
with that tire

Tread

That portion of a tire that comes into contact
with the road

Tread rib

A tread section running circumferentially
around a tire

Tread separation

Pulling away of the tread from the tire carcass

Treadwear indicators
(TWI)

The projections within the principal grooves
designed to give a visual indication of the
degrees of wear of the tread

Wheel-holding fixture

The fixture used to hold the wheel and tire
assembly securely during testing

*: Table 1  Occupant loading and distribution for vehicle normal load

6

for various designated seating capacities
Vehicle specifications
485

6-1. Specifications

Designated seating
capacity, Number of
occupants

Vehicle normal load,
Number of occupants

Occupant distribution in
a normally loaded
vehicle

2 through 4

2

2 in front

5 through 10

3

2 in front, 1 in second
seat

11 through 15

5

2 in front, 1 in second
seat, 1 in third seat, 1
in fourth seat

16 through 22

7

2 in front, 2 in second
seat, 2 in third seat, 1
in fourth seat

486

6-2. Customization

Customizable features
Your vehicle includes a variety of electronic features that can be personalized to your preferences. Programming these preferences
requires specialized equipment and may be performed by your
Toyota dealer.
Some function settings are changed simultaneously with other functions
being customized. Contact your Toyota dealer.

Item

Smart key
system
(P. 25)

Default setting

Customized
setting

Smart key system

On

Off

Operation signal
(Emergency flashers)

On

Off

Operation signal
(Buzzer)

On

Off

Operation buzzer volume

Level 5

Level 0 to 7

Number of permissible
times of continuous
smart lock

Twice

Unlimited

Trunk unlocking function

On

Off

Function

6

Vehicle specifications
487

6-2. Customization

Item

Function

Unlocking operation

Automatic door lock
function to be activated
if door is not opened
after being unlocked

Wireless
remote control
(P. 38)

Default setting

Customized
setting

Driver's door
unlocked in
one step, both
side doors
unlocked in
two steps

Both side
doors
unlocked in
one step

On

Off

Time elapsed before
automatic door lock
function is activated if
door is not opened after
being unlocked

60 seconds

Operation signal
(Emergency flashers)

On

Off

Operation signal
(Buzzer)

On

Off

Level 5

Level 0 to 7

On

Off

Operation buzzer volume
Door lock buzzer

30 seconds
120 seconds

Push and hold
(long)
Trunk unlocking operation

Push and hold
(short)

One short push
Two short
pushes

488

Panic function

On

Off

Vehicle finder function

Off

On

6-2. Customization

Item

Alarm
(P. 82)

Automatic
light control
system
(P. 222)

Rear window
defogger
(P. 284)

Illumination
(P. 289)

Function

Default setting

Customized
setting

Operation when doors
are unlocked using the
mechanical key (vehicles with a smart key
system)

Off

On

Light sensor sensitivity

±0%

-40% to +40%

Time elapsed before
headlights automatically turn off after doors
are closed

0 second
30 seconds

Time elapsed before
the rear window defogger turn off (vehicles
with an automatic air
conditioning system)

15 minutes

Time elapsed before
lights turn off

15 seconds

Operation when the
doors are unlocked

On

Off

Operation after the
engine switch is turned
off

On

Off

60 seconds
90 seconds

Continue

7.5 seconds
30 seconds

6

On

Off

Interior light illumination

On

Off

Vehicle specifications

Interior light illumination
upon approach (vehicles with a smart key
system)

489

6-2. Customization

490

For owners

7
Reporting safety defects
for U.S. owners .............. 492
Seat belt instructions
for Canadian owners
(in French) ..................... 493
SRS airbag instructions
for Canadian owners
(in French) ..................... 496

491

Reporting safety defects for U.S. owners
If you believe that your vehicle has a defect which could cause a
crash or could cause injury or death, you should immediately
inform the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)
in addition to notifying Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (Toll-free:
1-800-331-4331).
If NHTSA receives similar complaints, it may open an investigation,
and if it finds that a safety defect exists in a group of vehicles, it
may order a recall and remedy campaign. However, NHTSA cannot become involved in individual problems between you, your
dealer, or Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
To contact NHTSA, you may call the Vehicle Safety Hotline
toll-free at 1-888-327-4236 (TTY: 1-800-424-9153); go to
http://www.safercar.gov; or write to: Administrator, NHTSA,
1200 New Jersey Ave, S.E., Washington, DC 20590. You can
also obtain other information about motor vehicle safety from
http://www.safercar.gov.

492

Seat belt instructions for Canadian owners (in French)
The following is a French explanation of seat belt instructions
extracted from the seat belt section in this manual.

See the seat belt section for more detailed seat belt instructions in
English.

Utilisation correcte des ceintures de sécurité
● Déroulez la sangle diagonale
de telle sorte qu'elle passe
bien sur l'épaule, sans pour
autant être en contact avec le
cou ou glisser de l'épaule.
● Placez la sangle abdominale
le plus bas possible sur les
hanches.
● Réglez la position du dossier
de siège. Asseyez-vous le dos
droit et calez-vous bien dans
le siège.
● Ne vrillez pas la ceinture de
sécurité.

7

For owners
493

Guide de ceinture de sécurité avant
Pour faciliter le déroulage de la
ceinture de sécurité, passez-la
dans le guide.
Lorsque vous accédez aux
sièges arrière ou en descendez,
sortez la ceinture de sécurité de
son guide.

494

Entretien et soin
■ Ceintures de sécurité
Nettoyez avec un chiffon ou une éponge humidifiés avec de l'eau
savonneuse tiède. Vérifiez régulièrement que les ceintures ne sont
pas usées, effilochées ou entaillées excessivement.
ATTENTION
■ Détérioration et usure des ceintures de sécurité
● N'abîmez pas les ceintures de sécurité en coinçant la sangle, le pêne ou la
boucle dans la porte.
● Inspectez le système de ceintures de sécurité régulièrement. Contrôlez
l'absence de coupures, d'effilochages et de pièces desserrées.
Remplacez immédiatement toute ceinture de sécurité endommagée. Une
ceinture de sécurité endommagée ne permet pas de protéger un occupant
de blessures graves ou mortelles.
● Vérifiez que la ceinture et le pêne sont verrouillés et que la ceinture n'est
pas vrillée.
Si la ceinture de sécurité ne fonctionne pas correctement, contactez
immédiatement votre concessionnaire Toyota.
● Remplacez l'ensemble de siège, y compris les sangles, si votre véhicule a
été impliqué dans un accident grave, même en l'absence de dommage
visible.
● N'essayez pas d'installer, de retirer, de modifier, de démonter ou de mettre
au rebut les ceintures de sécurité. Faites effectuer les réparations
nécessaires par votre concessionnaire Toyota. Une mauvaise
manipulation du prétensionneur peut en altérer le fonctionnement, et
occasionner des blessures graves, voire mortelles.
7

For owners
495

SRS airbag instructions for Canadian owners (in French)

The following is a French explanation of SRS airbag instructions
extracted from the SRS airbag section in this manual.

See the SRS airbag section for more detailed SRS airbag
instructions in English.

Modèles équipés de coussins gonflables SRS et de ceintures
de sécurité pour le conducteur, le passager avant et les
passagers arrière
Votre véhicule est équipé d'un système de retenue
supplémentaire, en plus de la ceinture de sécurité, à chacun des
sièges avant et à chacun des sièges arrière. Le système de
retenue supplémentaire (SRS) se compose de six coussins
gonflables. Les configurations sont les suivantes.

496

Coussins gonflables frontaux du conducteur et du passager
avant
Coussins gonflables latéraux du conducteur et du passager
avant
Coussins gonflables rideaux (pour le conducteur, le passager
avant et les passagers arrière)
Ces coussins gonflables SRS ne sont conçus que comme
compléments à la protection première fournie par les ceintures de
sécurité.
Le système commande également les prétensionneurs de
ceintures de sécurité avant. Pour les instructions d'utilisation et les
précautions relatives au prétensionneur de ceinture de sécurité,
reportez-vous à “Prétensionneurs de ceintures de sécurité”.

7

For owners
497

ATTENTION
■ Coussin gonflable SRS
● Afin de garantir la meilleure protection possible dans l'éventualité d'un
accident, le conducteur et tous les passagers du véhicule doivent toujours
porter leur ceinture de sécurité lors de la conduite du véhicule. Les
coussins gonflables SRS ne sont conçus que comme compléments à la
protection première fournie par les ceintures de sécurité. Ils ne dispensent
pas de la nécessité du port des ceintures de sécurité. Ils offrent la
meilleure protection combinée, en complément du port des ceintures de
sécurité, en cas d'accident grave.
Ne pas porter la ceinture de sécurité augmente les risques de blessures
graves ou mortelles lors d'un accident, même lorsque le véhicule est
équipé de coussins gonflables SRS.
Pour les instructions d'utilisation et les précautions à prendre au sujet du
système de ceintures de sécurité, reportez-vous à “Ceintures de sécurité”.
● Ne vous asseyez pas et ne vous penchez pas inutilement près des
coussins gonflables SRS. Parce que les coussins gonflables SRS se
déploient à une vitesse considérable - plus vite que le clignement de vos
yeux - et avec une puissance conçue pour protéger des collisions à haute
vitesse, la puissance de déploiement d'un coussin gonflable peut blesser
un occupant dont le corps en est trop proche.
Il est également important de porter votre ceinture de sécurité pour
prévenir les blessures qui peuvent survenir lorsque le coussin gonflable
SRS entre en contact avec un occupant qui ne serait pas assis dans la
position adéquate, tel qu'un occupant qui aurait été projeté vers l'avant
lors du freinage qui précède l'accident.
Même en étant correctement positionné, il n'est pas impossible que
l'occupant subisse des blessures mineures, telles que des brûlures et des
ecchymoses sur le visage ou les bras, en raison de la puissance de
déploiement des coussins gonflables SRS.

498

ATTENTION
■ Coussin gonflable SRS
● Les coussins gonflables SRS se déploient à une vitesse et avec une
puissance considérables. Les occupants qui sont mal installés lorsque le
coussin gonflable SRS se déploie peuvent subir des blessures très
graves. Parce que le coussin gonflable SRS a besoin d'un espace
suffisant pour son déploiement, le conducteur doit toujours se tenir droit et
bien enfoncé dans le siège, le plus loin possible du volant, tout en
conservant le contrôle complet du véhicule, et le passager avant doit
déplacer son siège vers l'arrière aussi loin que possible, se tenir droit et
bien en arrière dans le siège.
● Ne placez pas d'objets au-dessus ou à proximité du cache du coussin
gonflable SRS ou entre vous et le coussin gonflable SRS. En cas de
déploiement du coussin gonflable SRS, ces objets pourraient interférer
avec son fonctionnement correct et pourraient être propulsés à l'intérieur
du véhicule et causer des blessures.

7

For owners
499

ATTENTION
■ Coussin gonflable SRS
● Placez les enfants de 12 ans et moins
sur le siège arrière, correctement
attachés à tout moment. Le coussin
gonflable SRS se déploie à une vitesse
et avec une force considérables et peut
blesser ou même tuer des enfants,
particulièrement s'ils ont 12 ans ou
moins, surtout s'ils ne sont pas ou mal
attachés. Parce que les enfants sont
plus légers et plus faibles que les
adultes, le risque qu'ils courent d'être
blessés par le déploiement est plus
grand.
Pour cette raison, nous recommandons
fortement que TOUS les enfants (y
compris les enfants installés dans des
sièges enfants et ceux qui sont trop
grands pour les sièges de sécurité
enfants) s'assoient sur le siège
ARRIÈRE et soient correctement
attachés dans un siège de sécurité
enfant ou avec une ceinture de
sécurité, selon le dispositif adapté pour
l'âge, la taille et le poids de l'enfant.
Attachez TOUS les types de sièges
enfant (y compris les sièges enfants de
type face à la route) sur les sièges
ARRIÈRE, en toutes circonstances.
Les statistiques relatives aux accidents
prouvent que les enfants sont mieux
protégés lorsqu'ils sont attachés
correctement à l'arrière plutôt qu'à
l'avant.
Pour les instructions d'utilisation et les
précautions à prendre au sujet des
sièges de sécurité enfant, reportezvous à “Sièges de sécurité enfant”.
500

ATTENTION
■ Coussin gonflable SRS
● N'INSTALLEZ JAMAIS UN SIÈGE ENFANT DE TYPE DOS À LA ROUTE
SUR LE SIÈGE AVANT. NÉGLIGER CECI REVIENT À FAIRE COURIR
LE RISQUE À L'ENFANT DE SUBIR DE GRAVES BLESSURES, VOIRE
LA MORT, EN PLAÇANT LA TÊTE DE L'ENFANT TROP PRÈS DES
COUSSINS GONFLABLES SRS.
● Ne laissez jamais un enfant se tenir debout ou à genoux sur le siège du
passager avant et ne tenez jamais un enfant sur vos genoux ou dans vos
bras. Le coussin gonflable SRS se déploie avec une force considérable et
peut blesser ou tuer l'enfant.
● Lorsque le coussin gonflable SRS se déploie, un peu de fumée est
relâchée. Cette fumée peut causer des problèmes respiratoires pour les
personnes ayant des antécédents d'asthme ou des difficultés à respirer. Si
vous ou vos passagers éprouvez une difficulté à respirer après le
déploiement du coussin gonflable SRS, prenez ou faites-leur prendre l'air
rapidement.
● Un coussin gonflable SRS qui se déploie libère un gaz chaud. Les
occupants pourraient se brûler s'ils entrent en contact direct avec le gaz
chaud.

7

For owners
501

Composants du système de coussins gonflables SRS

Capteur secondaire avant
(côté droit)

Capteur d'impact de porte
(côté droit)

Témoin
SRS

Module
de
coussin
gonflable rideau (côté droit)

d'avertissement

Module
du
coussin
gonflable
frontal
(côté
conducteur)
(à
deux
étapes)
Témoin ON et OFF du
coussin gonflable frontal du
passager avant (au centre
du tableau de bord)
Module
du
coussin
gonflable
frontal
(côté
passager avant) (à deux
étapes)
Module de commande de
détection de l'occupant du
siège passager avant

502

Câblage
des
gonflables

coussins

Module
de
coussin
gonflable
latéral
(côté
passager avant)
Capteur
de
coussin
gonflable latéral (côté droit
du montant central)
Capteur
de
coussin
gonflable rideau (côté droit
du passage de roue arrière)
Prétensionneur de ceinture
de sécurité (côté passager
avant)

Capteur
satellite
de
sécurité (sous le centre des
sièges arrière)

Module
de
coussin
gonflable
latéral
(côté
conducteur)

Capteur du système de
classification de l'occupant
du siège passager avant

Capteur d'impact de porte
(côté gauche)

Contact de boucle de
ceinture de sécurité (côté
passager avant)
Prétensionneur de ceinture
de
sécurité
(côté
conducteur)
Capteur
de
coussin
gonflable
rideau
(côté
gauche du passage de roue
arrière)

Module de commande de
coussin
gonflable
(y
compris capteurs d'impact
et
capteurs
de
retournement)
Capteur secondaire avant
(côté gauche)
Module
gonflable
gauche)

de
coussin
rideau
(côté

Capteur
de
coussin
gonflable
latéral
(côté
gauche du montant central)

7

For owners
503

Votre véhicule est équipé de COUSSINS GONFLABLES
INTELLIGENTS conçus selon les normes de sécurité américaines
applicables aux véhicules à moteur (FMVSS208). Le système de
coussins gonflables contrôle la puissance de déploiement des
coussins gonflables pour le conducteur et le passager avant. Le
système de coussins gonflables passager avant comprend le module
de contrôle de détection des occupants du siège passager avant, etc.
Les principaux éléments du système de coussins gonflables SRS
sont indiqués ci-dessus. Le système de coussins gonflables SRS est
commandé par le module de contrôle des coussins gonflables. Le
module de contrôle des coussins gonflables consiste en un capteur
de coussins gonflables.
Lorsque la violence du choc frontal ou latéral l'exige, le système de
coussins gonflables SRS déclenche les dispositifs de gonflage des
coussins gonflables. Une réaction chimique dans les dispositifs
pyrotechniques permet de déployer rapidement les coussins
gonflables avec un gaz inoffensif permettant d'amortir le mouvement
des occupants.

504

ATTENTION
■ En cas de déploiement des coussins gonflables SRS
Ne touchez pas les composants du système de coussins gonflables SRS au
niveau du volant et du tableau de bord à mains nues juste après le
déploiement. Cela peut causer des brûlures car les composants peuvent
être très chauds à la suite du déploiement.
■ Précautions relatives aux sièges de sécurité enfant
N'INSTALLEZ JAMAIS UN SIÈGE ENFANT TYPE DOS À LA ROUTE SUR
LE SIÈGE PASSAGER AVANT MÊME SI LE COUSSIN GONFLABLE
FRONTAL DU PASSAGER AVANT SRS EST DÉSACTIVÉ. Veillez à
l'installer correctement sur le siège ARRIÈRE. De même, il est fortement
recommandé que tout siège enfant type face à la route ou siège rehausseur
soit installé sur le siège ARRIÈRE, et que même les enfants trop grands
pour utiliser un siège de sécurité enfant s'assoient sur le siège ARRIÈRE.
En effet, les enfants assis sur le siège passager avant peuvent être tués ou
blessés gravement si le coussin gonflable frontal du passager avant SRS se
déploie. Les sièges ARRIÈRE sont les places les plus sûres pour les
enfants.

7

For owners
505

Coussin gonflable latéral SRS et coussin gonflable rideau SRS
Le coussin gonflable latéral SRS est logé dans le côté porte de
chaque dossier de siège avant, qui porte une étiquette “SRS
AIRBAG”.
Lors d'une collision latérale modérée à sévère, le coussin gonflable
latéral SRS, situé du côté où le véhicule est percuté, se déploie entre
l'occupant et le panneau de porte, et intervient en complément de la
ceinture de sécurité, en réduisant l'impact sur la poitrine et la taille de
l'occupant. Le coussin gonflable latéral SRS fonctionne uniquement
pour les occupants des sièges avant.
Le coussin gonflable rideau SRS situé de chaque côté de l'habitacle
est logé du côté toit (entre le montant avant et un point au-dessus du
siège arrière). Une inscription “SRS AIRBAG” est située en haut de
chaque montant avant et arrière.
Lors d'une collision latérale modérée à sévère, le coussin gonflable
rideau SRS, situé du côté où le véhicule est percuté, se déploie entre
l'occupant et la vitre latérale et intervient en complément de la
ceinture de sécurité, en réduisant l'impact sur la tête de l'occupant.

506

ATTENTION
■ En cas de déploiement des coussins gonflables SRS
Ne touchez pas les composants du système de coussins gonflables SRS
situés au niveau du dossier du siège avant à mains nues juste après le
déploiement. Cela peut causer des brûlures car les composants peuvent
être très chauds à la suite du déploiement.
Après le déploiement, ne touchez aucune partie du système de coussin
gonflable rideau SRS (entre le montant avant et un point situé au-dessus du
siège arrière, côté toit). Cela peut causer des brûlures car les composants
peuvent être très chauds à la suite du déploiement.
■ Précautions relatives au coussin gonflable latéral SRS et au coussin
gonflable rideau SRS
Le coussin gonflable latéral SRS et le coussin gonflable rideau SRS ne sont
conçus que comme compléments à la protection première fournie par la
ceinture de sécurité. Ils ne suppriment en aucun cas la nécessité du port des
ceintures de sécurité. Il est également important de porter votre ceinture de
sécurité pour prévenir les blessures qui peuvent survenir lorsqu'un occupant
n'est pas assis dans une position droite correcte.

7

For owners
507

ATTENTION
■ Précautions relatives aux coussins gonflables SRS
Respectez les précautions suivantes concernant les coussins gonflables
SRS.
Le non-respect de ces précautions peut occasionner des blessures graves,
voire mortelles.
● Le conducteur et tous les passagers du véhicule doivent porter
correctement leur ceinture de sécurité.
Les coussins gonflables SRS sont des dispositifs supplémentaires à
utiliser avec les ceintures de sécurité.
● Le coussin gonflable conducteur SRS se déploie avec une force
considérable, pouvant occasionner des blessures graves, voire mortelles,
si le conducteur se trouve très près du coussin gonflable.
L'autorité fédérale chargée de la sécurité routière aux États-Unis
(“NHTSA”) conseille:
La zone à risque du coussin gonflable conducteur se situant dans les
premiers 2 à 3 in. (50 à 75 mm) de déploiement, vous placer à 10 in. (250
mm) de votre coussin gonflable conducteur vous garantit une marge de
sécurité suffisante. Cette distance est à mesurer entre le centre du volant
et le sternum. Si vous êtes assis à moins de 10 in. (250 mm), vous pouvez
changer votre position de conduite de plusieurs façons:
• Reculez votre siège le plus possible, de manière à pouvoir encore
atteindre confortablement les pédales.
• Inclinez légèrement le dossier du siège. Bien que les véhicules aient
une conception différente, un grand nombre de conducteurs peuvent
s'asseoir à une distance de 10 in. (250 mm), même avec le siège
conducteur complètement avancé, simplement en inclinant un peu le
dossier de siège. Si vous avez des difficultés à voir la route après avoir
incliné le dossier de votre siège, utilisez un coussin ferme et
antidérapant pour vous rehausser ou remontez le siège si votre
véhicule est équipé de cette fonction.
• Si votre volant est réglable, inclinez-le vers le bas. Cela a pour effet
d'orienter le coussin gonflable en direction de votre poitrine plutôt que
de votre tête et de votre cou.
Réglez votre siège selon les recommandations de la NHTSA ci-dessus, tout
en conservant le contrôle des pédales, du volant et la vue des commandes
du tableau de bord.
508

ATTENTION
■ Précautions relatives aux coussins gonflables SRS
● Le coussin gonflable passager avant SRS se déploie également avec une
force considérable, pouvant occasionner des blessures graves, voire
mortelles, si le passager avant se trouve très près du coussin gonflable.
Le siège du passager avant doit être éloigné le plus possible du coussin
gonflable en réglant le dossier de siège de façon à ce que le passager
avant soit assis bien droit dans le siège.
● Les nourrissons et les enfants qui ne sont pas correctement assis et/ou
attachés peuvent être grièvement blessés ou tués par le déploiement d'un
coussin gonflable. Un nourrisson ou un enfant trop petit pour utiliser une
ceinture de sécurité doit être correctement attaché au moyen d'un siège
de sécurité enfant. Toyota recommande vivement d'installer tous les
nourrissons et enfants sur les sièges arrière du véhicule et de prévoir pour
eux des systèmes de retenue adaptés. Les sièges arrière sont plus sûrs
pour les nourrissons et les enfants que le siège du passager avant.
●Ne vous asseyez pas sur le bord du
siège et ne vous appuyez pas contre la
planche de bord.

7

For owners
509

ATTENTION
■ Précautions relatives aux coussins gonflables SRS
● Ne laissez pas un enfant rester debout
devant le coussin gonflable passager
avant SRS ou s'asseoir sur les genoux
du passager avant.
● Ne laissez pas les occupants des
sièges avant voyager avec un objet sur
les genoux.
● Ne vous appuyez pas contre la porte, le
rail latéral de toit ou les montants avant,
latéraux et arrière.

● Ne laissez personne s'agenouiller sur
le siège passager en appui contre la
porte ou sortir la tête ou les mains à
l'extérieur du véhicule.

510

ATTENTION
■ Précautions relatives aux coussins gonflables SRS
●Ne fixez rien et ne posez rien sur des
emplacements tels que la planche de
bord ou la garniture du volant.
Ces objets peuvent se transformer en
projectiles
lorsque
les
coussins
gonflables conducteur et passager
avant SRS se déploient.
●Ne fixez rien aux portes, à la vitre de
pare-brise, aux vitres latérales, aux
vitres de custode arrière, aux montants
avant et arrière ou aux rails latéraux de
toit.

● N'utilisez aucun accessoire de siège recouvrant les zones de déploiement
des coussins gonflables latéraux SRS, car il risque de gêner le
déploiement des coussins gonflables. De tels accessoires peuvent
empêcher les coussins gonflables latéraux de fonctionner correctement,
désactiver le système ou entraîner le déploiement accidentel des coussins
gonflables latéraux, occasionnant des blessures graves, voire mortelles.

7

For owners
511

ATTENTION
■ Précautions relatives aux coussins gonflables SRS
● Évitez de faire subir des chocs ou des pressions excessives aux parties
renfermant les composants de coussins gonflables SRS (oP. 502).
En effet, cela pourrait entraîner un dysfonctionnement des coussins
gonflables SRS.
● Ne touchez aucun composant immédiatement après le déploiement
(gonflage) des coussins gonflables SRS, car ils peuvent être chauds.
● Si vous avez des difficultés à respirer après le déploiement du coussin
gonflable SRS, ouvrez une porte ou une vitre pour faire entrer de l'air frais,
ou bien descendez du véhicule si cela ne présente pas de danger.
Essuyez tout résidu dès que possible afin d'éviter d'éventuelles irritations
de la peau.
● Si les parties renfermant les coussins gonflables SRS, comme les
garnitures du volant et des montants avant et arrière, sont endommagées
ou craquelées, faites-les remplacer par votre concessionnaire Toyota.

512

ATTENTION
■ Modification et mise au rebut des composants du système de coussins
gonflables SRS
Ne mettez pas votre véhicule au rebut et ne procédez à aucune des
modifications suivantes sans consulter votre concessionnaire Toyota.
Les coussins gonflables SRS peuvent ne pas fonctionner correctement ou
se déployer (se gonfler) accidentellement, provoquant la mort ou de graves
blessures.
● Installation, dépose, démontage et réparation des coussins gonflables
SRS.
● Réparations, modifications, démontage ou remplacement du volant, du
tableau de bord, de la planche de bord, des sièges ou de leur garnissage,
des montants avant, latéraux et arrière ou des rails latéraux de toit.
● Réparations ou modifications des ailes avant, du pare-chocs avant ou des
flancs de l'habitacle.
● Installation d'un protège-calandre (pare-buffle, pare-kangourou, etc.), de
chasse-neige, de treuils.
● Modifications du système de suspension du véhicule.
● Installation d'appareils électroniques tels que les émetteurs/récepteurs
radios mobiles et les lecteurs CD.
● Modifications de votre véhicule pour une personne atteinte d'un handicap
physique.

7

For owners
513

Moniteurs du système de coussins gonflables SRS
Véhicules avec écran multifonctionnel
monochrome

Véhicules avec écran multifonctionnel
couleurs

514

Lors de la conduite du véhicule,
un système de diagnostic
surveille
continuellement
la
disponibilité du système de
coussins gonflables SRS (y
compris les prétensionneurs de
ceintures de sécurité avant). Le
témoin d'avertissement SRS
indique
le
fonctionnement
normal du système en s'allumant
pendant environ 6 secondes
lorsque vous placez le contact
du moteur en position “ON”
(véhicules sans système d'accès
et de démarrage mains libres),
ou lorsque le contact “ENGINE
START STOP” est placé en
mode IGNITION ON (véhicules
avec système d'accès et de
démarrage mains libres).

Les composants suivants sont contrôlés par le témoin:
● Capteur secondaire avant (côté droit)
● Capteur secondaire avant (côté gauche)
● Module de commande de coussin gonflable (y compris capteurs
d'impact et capteurs de retournement)
● Module de coussin gonflable frontal (côté conducteur)
● Module de coussin gonflable frontal (côté passager avant)
● Capteur de coussin gonflable latéral (côté droit du montant central)
● Capteur de coussin gonflable latéral (côté gauche du montant
central)
● Capteur d'impact de porte (côté droit)
● Capteur d'impact de porte (côté gauche)
● Module de coussin gonflable latéral (côté conducteur)
● Module de coussin gonflable latéral (côté passager avant)

7

For owners
515

● Capteur de coussin gonflable rideau (côté droit du passage de
roue arrière)
● Capteur de coussin gonflable rideau (côté gauche du passage de
roue arrière)
● Module de coussin gonflable rideau (côté droit)
● Module de coussin gonflable rideau (côté gauche)
● Capteur satellite de sécurité (sous le centre des sièges arrière)
● Prétensionneur de ceinture de sécurité (côté conducteur)
● Prétensionneur de ceinture de sécurité (côté passager avant)
● Contact de boucle de ceinture de sécurité (côté passager avant)
● Capteur du système de classification de l'occupant du siège
passager avant
● Module de commande de détection de l'occupant du siège
passager avant
● Témoin ON et OFF du coussin gonflable frontal du passager avant
● Tous les câblages associés

516

ATTENTION
■ Témoin d'avertissement SRS
Si le témoin d'avertissement montre l'un des états suivants, il peut y avoir un
dysfonctionnement des prétensionneurs de ceintures de sécurité, du
système de coussins gonflables SRS et/ou du système de classification de
l'occupant du siège passager avant. Amenez immédiatement votre véhicule
chez votre concessionnaire Toyota le plus proche afin de faire vérifier le
système. Sans vérification et réparation adaptées, les prétensionneurs de
ceintures de sécurité, le système de coussins gonflables SRS et/ou le
système de classification de l'occupant du siège passager avant ne
fonctionneront pas correctement en cas de collision, ce qui pourrait
augmenter les risques de blessures graves, voire mortelles.
● Clignotement du témoin d'avertissement
● Le témoin ne s'allume pas lorsque le contact du moteur est d'abord placé
sur la position “ON” (véhicules sans système d'accès et de démarrage
mains libres), ou que le contact “ENGINE START STOP” est placé en
mode IGNITION ON (véhicules avec système d'accès et de démarrage
mains libres).
● Le témoin d'avertissement reste allumé en permanence
● Le témoin d'avertissement s'allume pendant la conduite

7

For owners
517

518

Index

Abbreviation list ..................... 520
Alphabetical index.................. 521
What to do if... ........................ 529

519

Abbreviation list

Abbreviation/Acronym list
ABBREVIATIONS

MEANING

ABS

Anti-lock Brake System

ACC

Accessory

AI-SHIFT

Artificial Intelligence Shift

ALR

Automatic Locking Retractor

CRS

Child Restraint System

DISP

Display

ECU

Electronic Control Unit

EDR

Event Data Recorder

ELR

Emergency Locking Retractor

EPS

Electric Power Steering

GAWR

Gross Axle Weight Ratings

GVWR

Gross Vehicle Weight Rating

I/M

Emission inspection and maintenance

LATCH

Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children

LED

Light Emitting Diode

LSD

Limited Slip Differential

M+S

Mud and Snow

MMT

Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl

OBD

On Board Diagnostics

SRS

Supplemental Restraint System

TIN

Tire Identification Number

TPMS

Tire Pressure Warning System

TRAC

Traction Control

VIN

Vehicle Identification Number

VSC

Vehicle Stability Control

520

Alphabetical index

Alphabetical index
A A/C .................................... 268, 275
ABS........................................... 245
Air conditioning filter.............. 360
Air conditioning system
Air conditioning filter ............. 360
Automatic air conditioning
system................................ 275
Manual air conditioning
system................................ 268
Airbags
Airbag operating
conditions................... 103, 111
Airbag precautions for
your child............................ 120
Airbag warning light.............. 398
Curtain shield airbag
operating conditions........... 111
Curtain shield airbag
precautions ........................ 120
Front passenger occupant
classification system .......... 128
General airbag
precautions ........................ 120
Locations of airbags ............... 89
Modification and
disposal of airbags ............. 124
Proper driving
posture ......................... 87, 120
Side airbag operating
conditions........................... 111
Side airbag
precautions ........................ 120
Side and curtain shield
airbags operating
conditions........................... 111
Side and curtain shield
airbags precautions............ 120
SRS airbag instructions for
Canadian owners ............... 496
SRS airbags ........................... 89

Alarm...........................................82
Anti-lock brake system............245
Audio input ...............................286
Audio system
Audio input ............................286
AUX port................................286
iPod .......................................286
Portable music player............286
Steering wheel audio
switches ..............................287
USB memory.........................286
USB port................................286
Automatic air conditioning
system ....................................275
Automatic headlight leveling
system ....................................226
Automatic light control
system ....................................222
Automatic transmission
Automatic transmission .........178
If the shift lever cannot be
shifted from P......................439
Manual mode ........................181
Mode select switch................180
Paddle shift switches.............181
AUX port ...................................286

B Back-up lights
Replacing light bulbs .............375
Wattage.................................469
Battery
Checking ...............................339
If the vehicle has a
discharged battery ..............445
Preparing and checking
before winter .......................261
Bottle holders...........................293
Brake
Fluid ......................................337
Parking brake ........................189

521

Alphabetical index

Brake assist..............................245
Break-in tips .............................155
Brightness control
Instrument panel light
control .................................192

C Care
Alcantara® .............................316
Aluminum wheels ..................309
Exterior..................................308
Interior ...................................312
Seat belts ..............................313
Cargo capacity .........................256
Chains .......................................263
Child restraint system
Booster seats,
definition .............................137
Booster seats,
installation...........................141
Convertible seats,
definition .............................137
Convertible seats,
installation...........................141
Front passenger occupant
classification system ...........128
Infant seats,
definition .............................137
Infant seats,
installation...........................141
Installing CRS with
LATCH anchors ..................142
Installing CRS with
seat belts ............................144
Installing CRS with
top tether straps..................147

Child safety
Airbag precautions ................ 120
Battery precautions ....... 342, 448
Child restraint system ........... 137
How your child should
wear the seat belt .................62
Installing child restraints........ 141
Power window lock switch ......72
Power window
precautions ...........................74
Removed key battery
precautions ......................... 365
Seat belt guide ........................61
Seat belt precautions ..............64
Seat heater precautions........ 302
Trunk precautions ...................49
Cleaning
Alcantara®............................. 316
Aluminum wheels.................. 309
Exterior.................................. 308
Interior................................... 312
Seat belts .............................. 313
Clock ......................................... 298
Condenser ................................ 337
Console tray ............................. 294
Coolant
Capacity ................................ 464
Checking ............................... 335
Cooling system
Engine overheating ............... 450
Cruise control ..........................232
Cup holders.............................. 294
Curtain shield airbags ...............89
Customizable features ............ 487

D Daytime running light
system .................................... 224
Defogger
Rear window ......................... 284
Side mirror ............................ 284

522

Alphabetical index

Dimension................................ 458
Dinghy towing ......................... 266
Display
Drive information .................. 210
Multi-information
display........................ 200, 207
Trip information ............ 202, 208
Warning messages............... 408
Do-it-yourself maintenance.... 324
Doors
Door lock .................... 25, 38, 43
Door windows......................... 72
Side mirrors ............................ 69
Driver's seat belt
reminder light........................ 400
Driving
Break-in tips ......................... 155
Correct posture....................... 87
Procedures ........................... 152
Winter drive tips.................... 261

E Electric power steering........... 245
Electronic key
If the electronic key does
not operate properly........... 441
Emergency flashers
Switch................................... 384
Emergency, in case of
If the electronic key does
not operate properly........... 441
If the engine will not start...... 436
If the shift lever cannot
be shifted from P................ 439
If the vehicle has a
discharged battery ............. 445
If the warning buzzer
sounds ............................... 396
If the warning light
turns on .............................. 396

If the warning message
is displayed .........................408
If you have a flat tire .............425
If you lose your keys .............440
If you think something is
wrong ..................................394
If your vehicle becomes
stuck ...................................453
If your vehicle has to be
stopped in an
emergency ..........................455
If your vehicle needs to
be towed .............................386
If your vehicle overheats .......450
Engine
Compartment ........................331
Engine switch ................166, 175
Hood......................................327
How to start the
engine .........................166, 175
Identification number.............459
If the engine will not start ......436
Ignition switch................166, 175
Overheating...........................450
Engine coolant
Capacity ................................464
Checking ...............................335
Engine coolant temperature
gauge ......................................191
Engine immobilizer system.......79
Engine oil
Capacity ................................462
Checking ...............................332
Preparing and checking
before winter .......................261
Engine switch...................166, 175
Engine switch light ..................289
EPS............................................245
Event data recorder ...................18

523

Alphabetical index

F Floor mat...................................303
Fluid
Brake.....................................337
Washer..................................343
Fog lights
Switch....................................228
Front fog lights
Switch....................................228
Front passenger occupant
classification system ............128
Front passenger's seat belt
reminder light.........................400
Front seats
Adjustment ..............................53
Front side marker light
Replacing light bulbs .............375
Wattage.................................469
Front turn signal lights
Switch....................................188
Fuel
Capacity ................................461
Fuel gauge ............................191
Fuel pump shut off system ....395
Gas station information .........532
Information ............................470
Refueling .................................75
Fuel door.....................................75
Fuel filler door ............................75
Fuel pump shut off system .....395
Fuses.........................................367

G Gauges......................................191
Glove box..................................292

524

H Hazard lights
Switch ................................... 384
Head restraints
Adjusting ................................58
Headlights
Automatic headlight
leveling ............................... 226
Switch ................................... 222
Heaters
Seat heaters..........................301
Side mirror ............................ 284
Hill-start assist control............ 252
Hood.......................................... 327
Horn .......................................... 190

I

I/M test ...................................... 323
Identification
Engine................................... 459
Vehicle .................................. 459
Ignition switch..................166, 175
Ignition switch light
Ignition switch light................ 289
Illuminated entry system......... 289
Immobilizer system ...................79
Indicator lights ......................... 194
Inside rear view mirror ..............68
Interior light
Interior light ........................... 290
Switch ................................... 290
Wattage................................. 469

J Jack
Positioning a floor jack .......... 329
Vehicle-equipped
jack ..................................... 425
Jack handle .............................. 425
Jam protection function
Power windows .......................73

Alphabetical index

K Keyless entry............................. 38

Manual air conditioning
system ....................................268
Manual transmission ...............185
Meter
Indicators...............................194
Instrument panel
light control .........................192
Meters ...................................191
Multi-information
display.........................200, 207
Settings .........................200, 217
Warning lights .......................396
Warning messages ...............408
Microphone...............................288
Mirrors
Inside rear view mirror.............68
Side mirror heater .................284
Side mirrors.............................69
Vanity mirrors ........................297
Multi-information display
Drive information ...................210
G-force display ......................212
Language ..............................217
Multi-information
display.........................200, 207
Settings .................................217
Trip information .............202, 208
Warning messages ...............408

Keys
Electronic key ......................... 22
Engine switch ............... 166, 175
If you lose your keys............. 440
If your electronic key
battery is discharged.......... 441
Key number ............................ 22
Keyless entry.......................... 38
Keys ....................................... 22
Mechanical key....................... 23
Wireless remote
control key............................ 38

L Language (multi-information
display) .................................. 217
License plate lights
Replacing light bulbs ............ 375
Wattage ................................ 469
Light bulbs
Replacing ............................. 375
Wattage ................................ 469
Lights
Emergency flasher switch .... 384
Engine switch light................ 289
Fog light switch..................... 228
Hazard light switch ............... 384
Headlights switch ................. 222
Interior light switch................ 290
Replacing light bulbs ............ 375
Trunk light............................... 48
Turn signal lever................... 188
Wattage ................................ 469
Load capacity .......................... 260

M Maintenance
Do-it-yourself
maintenance ...................... 324
General maintenance ........... 320
Maintenance data................. 458
Maintenance requirements... 318

N

Noise from under vehicle ..........15

O

Odometer ..................................191
Oil
Engine oil ..............................332
Opener
Fuel filler door .........................75
Hood......................................327
Trunk .......................................46
Outside rear view mirrors
Adjusting and folding...............69

525

Alphabetical index

Outside temperature
display ............................200, 219
Overheating, Engine ................450

P

Paddle shift switches ..............181
Parking brake ...........................189
Parking lights
Switch....................................222
Power outlets ...........................299
Power windows ..........................72

R

Radiator ....................................337
Rear seats...................................56
Rear side marker lights
Switch....................................222
Rear turn signal lights
Switch....................................188
Rear view mirror
Inside rear view mirror.............68
Outside rear view mirrors ........69
Rear view monitor system ......237
Rear window defogger ............284
Replacing
Fuses ....................................367
Key battery ............................363
Light bulbs.............................375
Tires ......................................425
Reporting safety defects
for U.S. owners ......................492
REV indicator ...........................156

S

Seat belts
Adjusting the seat belt.............60
Automatic Locking
Retractor (ALR).....................62
Child restraint system
installation...........................141
Cleaning and maintaining
the seat belts ......................313

526

Emergency Locking
Retractor (ELR) ....................62
How to wear your seat belt .....60
How your child should
wear the seat belt .................62
Pregnant women,
proper seat belt use..............64
Reminder light....................... 400
Seat belt guide ........................61
Seat belt pretensioners ...........61
Seat heaters ............................. 301
Seating capacity ...................... 260
Seats
Adjustment ..............................53
Adjustment precautions ..........55
Child seats/child restraint
system installation .............. 141
Cleaning................................ 312
Head restraint .........................58
Properly sitting in the seat.......87
Seat heaters..........................301
Service reminder
indicators .............................. 194
Shift lever
Automatic transmission......... 178
If the shift lever cannot
be shifted from P ................ 439
Manual transmission ............. 185
Shift lock system ..................... 439
Side airbags ...............................89
Side maker lights
Replacing light bulbs............. 375
Switch ................................... 222
Wattage................................. 469
Side mirror
Adjusting and folding...............69
Smart key system
Antenna location .....................27
Entry function ..........................25
Starting the engine................ 166

Alphabetical index

Spare tire
Inflation pressure.................. 468
Storage location ................... 425
Spark plug................................ 464
Specifications.......................... 458
Speedometer ........................... 191
Steering
Column lock release............... 67
Steering wheel
Adjustment ............................. 67
Audio switches ..................... 287
Meter control switches.......... 208
Storage feature........................ 291
Stuck
If your vehicle becomes
stuck................................... 453
Sun visors................................ 296
Switch
Audio remote control
switches ............................. 287
“DISP” switch........................ 203
Driving pattern selector
switch ................................. 180
Emergency flasher switch .... 384
Engine switch .............. 166, 175
Fog light switch..................... 228
Hazard light switch ............... 384
Ignition switch............... 166, 175
“km/h MPH” switch ............... 191
Light switches....................... 222
Meter control switches.......... 208
“ODO/TRIP” switch....... 202, 208
Power door lock
switch ................................... 43
Power window switch ............. 72
“TRACK” switch.................... 247
Transmission shift
switches ..................... 181, 183
VSC/TRAC off
switch ......................... 246, 247
Window lock switch ................ 72
Wiper and washer
switch ................................. 229

T

Tachometer
Tachometer ...........................191
Tail lights
Switch....................................222
Theft deterrent system
Alarm.......................................82
Engine immobilizer system .....79
Theft prevention labels..............86
Tire inflation pressure .............468
Tire information
Glossary ................................480
Size .......................................477
Tire identification number......476
Uniform tire quality
grading................................478
Tires
Chains ...................................263
Checking ...............................345
Compact spare tire................425
If you have a flat tire..............425
Inflation pressure...................353
Inflation pressure sensor.......345
Information ............................474
Replacing ..............................425
Rotating tires .........................345
Size .......................................468
Snow tires .............................261
Spare tire...............................425
Tire pressure warning
system ................................400
Tools .........................................425
Towing
Dinghy towing........................266
Emergency towing.................386
TRAC .........................................245
“TRACK” mode ........................247
Traction control........................245

527

Alphabetical index

Transmission shift
switches .........................181, 183
Trip meter .........................200, 219
Trunk
Opener ....................................46
Trunk light
Wattage.................................469
Turn signal lights
Switch....................................188

U

USB port ...................................286

V

Vanity mirrors...........................297
Vehicle identification
number ...................................459
Vehicle stability control...........245
VSC............................................245

W Warning buzzers
Electric power steering..........398
Seat belt reminder.................400
Smart key system..........410, 414
Warning lights
Automatic headlight
leveling system ...................398
Automatic transmission
fluid temperature
warning light........................400
Anti-lock brake
system ................................398
Brake assist system ..............398
Brake system ........................396
Charging system ...................397
Cruise control
indicator light.......................398
Electric power steering
system warning light ...........398
Electronic engine control
system ................................398

528

Engine oil pressure ............... 397
High engine coolant
temperature ........................ 397
Low fuel level ........................ 400
Low tire pressure .................. 400
Malfunction indicator
lamp.................................... 398
Master warning light.............. 400
Open door ............................. 400
Pretensioners........................ 398
Seat belt reminder
light ..................................... 400
Slip indicator light.................. 398
Smart key system ......... 410, 414
SRS airbags..........................398
Tire pressure warning
system ................................ 400
Warning messages .................. 408
Washer
Checking ............................... 343
Preparing and checking
before winter....................... 261
Switch ................................... 229
Washing and waxing ............... 308
Weight
Cargo capacity ...................... 256
Load limits............................. 260
Weight................................... 458
Wheels ...................................... 357
Window glasses ........................72
Window lock switch...................72
Windows
Power windows .......................72
Rear window defogger .......... 284
Washer.................................. 229
Windshield wipers ................... 229
Winter driving tips ................... 261
Wireless remote control key
Locking/Unlocking...................38
Replacing the battery ............ 363
Wireless remote control key....38

What to do if...

What to do if...

A tire punctures

P. 425 If you have a flat tire

P. 436 If the engine will not start

The engine does not start

P. 79

Engine immobilizer system

P. 445 If the battery is discharged

The shift lever cannot be
moved out

P. 439

If the shift lever cannot be shifted
from P

The engine coolant temperature gauge enters the red zone (vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display)
The high engine coolant temperature warning light flashes or
illuminates (vehicles with a color multi-information display)

P. 450 If your vehicle overheats

Steam can be seen coming
from under the hood

The key is lost

P. 440 If you lose your keys

The battery runs out

P. 445 If the battery is discharged

The doors cannot be locked

P. 43

Doors

The horn begins to sound

P. 82

Alarm

The vehicle is stuck in mud
or sand

P. 453 If the vehicle becomes stuck

529

What to do if...

A warning light or indicator
light comes on

P. 396

If a warning light turns on or a
warning buzzer sounds...

■ Instrument cluster

Vehicles with a monochrome multi-information display

Vehicles with a color multi-information display

■ Center panel

530

What to do if...

■Warning lights
Brake system warning
light

Smart key system indicator
light
P. 410, 414

or

Slip indicator
P. 396

P. 398

Charging system warnP. 397
ing light

Automatic headlight leveling sysP. 398
tem warning light

Low engine oil pressure
P. 397
warning light

Cruise control indicator
light*2
P. 398

High engine coolant temperature
P. 397
warning light*1

Open door warning light

Malfunction indicator
lamp

Low fuel level warning
P. 400
light

P. 400

or
P. 398

SRS warning light
P. 398

ABS warning light

Driver’s seat belt
reminder light P. 400
Front passenger’s seat belt
P. 400
reminder light
Tire pressure warning
P. 400
light

or
P. 398

Electric power steering
warning light
P. 398

Automatic transmission fluid temperature warning light P. 400
Master warning light
P. 400

*1: The light flashes or illuminates in red to indicate a malfunction.
*2: The light comes on in yellow to indicate a malfunction.

531

GAS STATION INFORMATION

Fuel filler door
P. 75

Trunk opener
P. 46

Auxiliary catch lever
P. 327

Tire inflation pressure
P. 468

Fuel filler door opener
P. 75

Hood lock release lever
P. 327

Fuel tank capacity
(Reference)
Fuel type

13.2 gal. (50 L, 11.0 Imp. gal.)
Unleaded gasoline only

Cold tire inflation
pressure
Engine oil capacity
(Drain and refill 
reference)
Engine oil type

532

P. 76, 461

P. 468
Without filter
With filter

qt. (L, Imp. qt.)
5.5 (5.2, 4.6)
5.7 (5.4, 4.8)
P. 462

